https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/training-based-workforce-development-advanced/nsf23-520/solicitation

Title: Training-based Workforce Development for Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
Synopsis: This program seeks to prepare, nurture, and grow the national scientific research workforce for creating, utilizing, and supporting advanced cyberinfrastructure (CI) to enable and potentially transform fundamental science and engineering (S&E) research and education and contribute to the Nation's overall economic competitiveness and security. The goals of this solicitation are to (i) ensure broad adoption of CI tools, methods, and resources by the research community in order to catalyze major research advances and to enhance researchers’ abilities to lead the development of new CI, and (ii) integrate core literacy and discipline-appropriate advanced skills in advanced CI as well as computational and data-driven methods for advancing fundamental research, into the Nation’s undergraduate and graduate educational curriculum/instructional materials. Proposals responding to this solicitation may target one or both solicitation goals. For the purpose of this solicitation, advanced CI is broadly defined as the set of resources, tools, methods, and services for advanced computation, large-scale data handling and analytics, and networking and security for large-scale systems that collectively enable potentially transformative fundamental S&E research and education.
This solicitation calls for innovative, scalable training, education, and curriculum/instructional materials—targeting one or more of the solicitation goals—to address emerging needs and unresolved bottlenecks in the S&E research workforce development, from the postsecondary level to active researchers to CI professionals. The funded activities, spanning targeted, multidisciplinary communities, should lead to transformative changes in the state of research workforce preparedness for advanced CI-enabled research in the short- and long-term. This solicitation also seeks to broaden CI access and adoption by (i) increasing the adoption of advanced CI and computational and data-driven methods to a broader range of S&E disciplines and institutions and (ii) effectively utilizing individual capabilities. Proposals from, and in partnership with, the aforementioned communities are especially encouraged.
There are two project classes as defined below:

Pilot Projects: up to $300,000 total budget with durations up to two years; and
Implementation Projects: Small (with total budgets of up to $500,000) or Medium (with total budgets of up to $1,000,000) for durations of up to four years.

Section II. Program Description provides a more complete description of the project classes. Section V.A. Proposal Preparation Instructions describes the proposal elements required for the various project classes in order to address the suitable set of solicitation-specific review criteria.
The CyberTraining program is led by the Office of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure (OAC) in the Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) and has participation from other NSF directorates/divisions, as described in Section II. Program Description, Programmatic Areas of Interest. Not all directorates/divisions are participating at the same level, and some have specific research and education priorities. The appropriate contact for the CyberTraining program in any directorate/division is the Cognizant Program Officer (PO) for the respective directorate/division/office/program listed below.
All projects are expected to clearly articulate how they will address important community needs and provide resources that will be widely available to and usable by the research community. Prospective principal investigators (PIs) are strongly encouraged to contact the Cognizant Program Officers in CISE/OAC and in the participating directorate/division relevant to the proposal to ascertain whether the focus and budget of their proposed activities are appropriate for this solicitation. Such consultations should be completed at least one month in advance of the submission deadline. PIs should include the names of the Cognizant Program Officers consulted in a Single Copy Document as described in Section V.A. Proposal Preparation Instructions. The intent of the CyberTraining program is to encourage collaboration between CI and S&E domain disciplines. (For this purpose, units of CISE other than OAC are considered domain disciplines.) To ensure relevance to community needs and to facilitate adoption, those proposals of interest to one or more domain divisions must include at least one PI/co-PI with expertise relevant to the targeted research discipline. All proposals shall include at least one PI/co-PI with expertise relevant to OAC.
Prospective PIs contemplating submissions that primarily target communities relevant to directorates/divisions that are not participating in this solicitation are directed to instead explore the education and workforce development programs of the respective directorates/divisions.
Award Type: standard, continuing, coop
Next due date (Y-m-d): 2026-01-15, 2026-01-15
Program ID: 505342
NSF/PD Num: nsf23520
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2022-11-21
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/training-based-workforce-development-advanced/nsf23-520
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Training-based Workforce Development for Advanced Cyberinfrastructure (CyberTraining)

I. Introduction

Advanced computing and data analytics are increasingly at the center of S&E innovation and economic prosperity. Access to advanced CI resources within a comprehensive and highly interoperable ecosystem is becoming commonplace. For example, ubiquitous cloud-based services can provide tailored access to application-specific heterogeneous resources, including resources for training, education, and research. The CyberTraining program addresses the emerging skills required for preparation and career growth of the S&E research workforce to support the innovation, development, maintenance, and utilization of such an advanced CI ecosystem .

The need for such research workforce development programs has been highlighted by a number of recent activities and reports, including (i) the National Strategic Computing Initiative ( NSCI ), which has been co-led by NSF and aims to advance the high-performance computing (HPC) ecosystem and develop the workforce essential for scientific discovery and was updated in 2019; (ii) the 2020 National Science and Technology Council Subcommittee on Future Advanced Computing Ecosystem (SC-FACE) that developed a strategic plan, Pioneering the Future Advanced Computational Ecosystem: A Strategic Plan that identified research workforce development as a key concern and major area of investment across all federal agencies; (iii) the 2020 Cyberinfrastructure Development Workshop 2020: Building the research innovation workforce that had as a primary goal exploring challenges, strategies, and solutions to address the need for an advanced CI research innovation workforce, specifically focusing on issues related to the CI Professional workforce; and (iv) the Federal Big Data Research and Development Strategic Plan , which seeks to expand the community of data-empowered experts across all domains. As envisioned by the NSCI Strategic Plan and reinforced by the SC-FACE Strategic Plan , for advanced CI to be effective, it must be easily accessible to, and usable by, a broad range of researchers. This requires skills training and outreach to new users, coupled with applications and a variety of innovative technologies as well as creative approaches, to ensure that the overall productivity of an advanced CI-enabled S&E ecosystem is maximized and sustained. The 2017 Request for Information on Future Needs for Advanced Cyberinfrastructure to Support Science and Engineering Research (NSF CI 2030) , resulted in a substantial number of responses identifying the need for training, education, and curricular updates related to advanced CI. Finally, NSF recently released a holistic and forward-looking blueprint for Cyberinfrastructure Learning and Workforce Development that focuses on engagement across all relevant communities of concern, including CI contributors, CI users, and CI Professionals, along with their institutions.

The goals of this solicitation are to (i) ensure broad adoption of CI tools, methods, and resources by the research community in order to catalyze major research advances and to enhance researchers' abilities to lead the development of new CI, and (ii) integrate core literacy and discipline-appropriate advanced skills in advanced CI as well as computational and data-driven methods for advancing fundamental research, into the Nation's undergraduate and graduate educational curriculum/instructional materials. In the short term, projects must either catalyze potentially transformative fundamental research in specific NSF-supported disciplines with innovative, scalable, informal/formal training and educational activities and/or result in curriculum/instructional material that is integrated into undergraduate and graduate courses, serving as templates for adoption by other institutions and informing best practices and institutional and disciplinary curriculum/instructional material. In the long term, projects should contribute to the larger goals of an educational and research ecosystem that enables computational and data-driven science for all scientists and engineers, with an understanding of computation as the third pillar and data-driven science as the fourth pillar of the scientific discovery process ( Future Directions for NSF Advanced Computing Infrastructure to Support U.S. Science and Engineering in 2017-2020 ), in addition to the traditional first and second pillars of theory and experimentation, respectively. Furthermore, in the long term, projects should contribute toward ubiquitous educational infrastructure for online, dynamic, personalized lessons and certifications in CI and other multidisciplinary areas that enable broad use by the NSF research communities of advanced CI tools and resources and catalyze potentially transformative fundamental research ( NSF Advisory Committee for Cyberinfrastructure Task Force on Cyberlearning and Workforce Development Report , Chapter 1, Continuous Collaborative Computational Cloud in Higher Education, 2011), while helping to create a diverse and sustainable community of skilled researchers and CI professionals and broadening CI contributions and adoption.

The CyberTraining program focuses on three overlapping scientific communities, and projects should target one or more of these communities:

CI Professionals: This is the community of research CI and professional staff who deploy, manage, and collaboratively support the effective use of research CI. A CI Professionals -related project can address technical and research CI professional skills of current and future CI Professionals , including undergraduate and graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and research scientists.

CI Contributors: This is the community of computational, data, and domain scientists and engineers who research and develop new CI capabilities, approaches, and methods. A CI Contributors -related project is for discipline-appropriate contributor-level CI skills and advanced domain skills development; the target population spans graduate and undergraduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and researchers who are current and future CI Contributors.

CI Users: This is the community of domain scientists and engineers who effectively exploit advanced CI capabilities and methods for research. A CI Users -related project is for user-level core literacy in discipline-appropriate advanced CI as well as computational and data-driven S&E skills; the target population spans undergraduate and graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and researchers who are current and future CI Users.

CI Professionals include information technology professionals, scientists, and engineers who work closely with the computational and data-enabled scientific and engineering researchers at colleges and universities, supercomputing and other centers, and other research institutions. Examples of CI Professionals include CI system administrators, CI research support staff, research software engineers, and CI facilitators, and may also include computational research scientists and engineers and non-tenure-track faculty.

CI Contributors include both computing as well as domain faculty and research scientists and engineers, including their undergraduate and graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, who develop new knowledge in the design, development, and utilization of robust research CI. CI Contributors explore all aspects of advanced CI, including new scalable models and simulations as well as architecture and middleware for extreme-scale systems, scalable algorithms and applications, software at various levels of the scientific software stack, and a robust advanced CI ecosystem to enable major advances in potentially transformative fundamental research.

CI Users include the large, diverse group of domain S&E faculty and researchers, including their undergraduate and graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, who are the current and potential users of new advanced CI capabilities for their research activities.

NSF anticipates proposals for informal/formal training and education, including retraining and cross-training, or for curricular activities, on topics related to the use of methods and resources for advanced CI as well as discipline-appropriate computational and data-driven S&E. Proposals are anticipated to span all levels, from basic literacy to advanced, and focus on addressing the emerging needs of fundamental research communities and resolving outstanding bottlenecks. Activities can include retraining and cross-training of the faculty mentors and course instructors themselves to keep up with the dynamic knowledge landscape, as one of the ways for obtaining a multiplier effect. NSF expects awardees to coordinate with the ACCESS program ( https://access-ci.org ) as described below. For student training and education, a key concern is not to increase the time to degree.

II. Program Description

NSF invites proposals that identify the emerging and outstanding community needs in training and education that require significant innovations and will result in transformative changes. NSF also seeks proposals that will pioneer innovative solutions to the challenge of broadening CI access and adoption by those disciplines and institutions with low CI adoption. Proposals should engage the relevant set of partners required as investigators, collaborators, expert advisors, resource providers, or early adopters, and include plans for effective outreach to stakeholder communities.

For projects targeting the first goal of the solicitation, potentially eligible activities range from training (e.g., workshops, summer schools) for researchers on the role of CI in addressing fundamental knowledge gaps and enabling CI tools and concepts; training and education that give students the foundation to understand the key research challenges in a given field and how they would use CI to effectively advance new knowledge; or training and education for CI professionals on the role of CI in advancing fundamental research and how to facilitate effective collaborations between researchers and CI experts. Such projects are expected to demonstrate strong collaboration between CI experts and domain scientists to enable a specific research community to advance the frontiers of knowledge in that field.

For projects targeting the second goal of the solicitation, key challenges to be addressed include how to design or update relevant curriculum/instructional materials so that they will receive buy-in from a broad community of stakeholders, ensuring that the materials are of high quality and widely adoptable, and being informed by best practices for producing institutional and disciplinary curriculum/instructional materials. Such proposals should articulate well-designed programs with potential for significant impacts, including serving as templates and providing curriculum/instructional materials that can be adopted by other institutions, communities, or disciplines.

Prospective principal investigators are encouraged to engage the relevant stakeholders, to the extent possible, by forging alliances and forming backbones employing "collective impact" or an alternative strategy; this is necessary for projects addressing the second goal of the solicitation in order to inform forward-looking curriculum/instructional material development for the Nation's S&E workforce (John Kania & Mark Kramer, "Collective Impact," Stanford Social Innovation Review , 2011). PIs may seek public and private partnerships to increase relevance, enrichment, sustainability, and the pursuit of national and international dimensions. Stakeholders may include colleges and universities (e.g., educators, researchers, and professional staff); supercomputing centers and related entities; professional/disciplinary associations; non-governmental organizations responsible for curriculum/instructional material development, accreditation, or professional examinations; public and private institutions; government and industry research labs; industry; authors and publishers; and federal, state, and local agencies. Stakeholders may also include international partners (note that NSF funds may only be used to support U.S.-based researchers). In addition, each Implementation project must have a board of expert advisors or a network of funded/unfunded collaborators that is representative of the stakeholder communities to provide periodic guidance and help refine the project methods or the curriculum/instructional material or to help inform professional associations and non-governmental organizations responsible for curriculum, accreditation, or professional examination.

As investigators conceive of novel training and educational activities or curriculum/instructional materials, they are challenged to explore one or more of the following aspects for short-term impacts: (i) preparing a better scientific research workforce for advanced CI-enabled research, enhancing research productivity and enabling NSF researchers to effectively address complex societal problems; (ii) broadening adoption and accessibility both as users and contributors of institutional, regional, and national shared computing and data resources by various disciplines and categories of institutions; (iii) developing or updating curriculum/instructional material to feed into undergraduate and graduate courses, and in collaboration with key stakeholders, strategically advancing the goal of informing disciplinary or general education core curriculum/instructional material , or informing discipline-appropriate curriculum/instructional material for advancing skill sets in CI and computational and data-driven S&E that will enable major advances in fundamental research; (iv) creating alliances and backbones for "collective impact" or alternative strategies ; (v) providing on-demand, personalized accessibility ; and (vi) exploring innovative ways of drawing students into computational studies ("X+Computing" and "Computing+X").

In the longer term, investigators should explore how their project contributes to one or more of the following program goals: (i) lead to an educational ecosystem enabling computational and data-driven science for all scientists and engineers; (ii) lead to re-envisioning the advanced CI ecosystem as an integral and enabling element of a broader, richer, and dynamic scientific and engineering research enterprise; (iii) establish deeper engagement with and impact on various disciplines and institutions; (iv) establish clear career pathways, career development and employment opportunities for the scientific and engineering research communities of concern; and (v) result in a ubiquitous and scalable educational and training infrastructure for online, dynamic, personalized lessons, and certifications.

Investigators may explore various training modes and informal education models, in addition to formal classroom education models. Examples of informal methods include but are not limited to: (i) summer institutes hosting participants for a few weeks employing logistics similar to Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Sites (note that the CyberTraining solicitation will not accept submissions for REU Sites); (ii) intensive, short-duration training workshops; (iii) workshop and conference training/tutorial tracks; (iv) massive open online courses, small private online courses, and online self-paced training; (v) collaboratively taught courses with remote and local instruction; and (vi) programming and other competitions and awards. NSF expects awardees to coordinate with the ACCESS program ( https://access-ci.org ) in two ways. First, new training materials produced can be incorporated into the ACCESS Knowledge Base ( https://support.access-ci.org/knowledge-base ). Second, CI mentors and mentees are strongly encouraged to register their areas of expertise into the index of providers ( https://support.access-ci.org/cssn ) available to support the broader community of researchers.

The overall quality of the recruitment and selection processes for the trainees and trainers will be important. The recruitment plan should include the types of institutions from which trainees will be recruited, along with a plan to engage with individuals from disciplines and institutions with lower levels of CI adoption.

Evaluation of a project is another crucial element. A project should include plans to evaluate its success, including the attainment of planned short- and long-term goals. The PI team should identify the expected competencies, curriculum/instructional material, outcomes, impact on CI professionals, etc., along with measures of success and an evaluation timetable. There must be mechanisms for regular feedback from an independent evaluator , trainees, advisors, and early adopters to the PI team and for feedback to inform further project progress. Proposers may consult The 2010 User-Friendly Handbook for Project Evaluation for guidance on the elements of a good evaluation plan.

Project Classes

Proposals submitted to this solicitation must be consistent with one of the project classes defined below. Proposals will be considered for funding within their project classes. The project classes are based on the scope and effort required and the level of impact intended. Section V.A. Proposal Preparation Instructions describes the components required for various project classes to address the additional solicitation specific review criteria.

PILOT Projects

Pilot projects, with total budgets of up to $300,000 and with durations of up to two years, are exploratory activities that may lead to Implementation projects.

IMPLEMENTATION Projects

Implementation projects can be either Small (with total budgets of up to $500,000) or Medium (with total budgets of up to $1,000,000) for durations of up to four years. Implementation projects make CI training and educational activities or curriculum/instructional materials broadly accessible to a significant portion of a community for one or more disciplines. These projects collaborate with other CyberTraining awards and with other appropriate NSF-funded projects. Medium Implementation projects also foster a community to catalyze the adoption of advanced CI methods or incorporate training resources and materials into the curriculum.

Programmatic Areas of Interest

The CyberTraining program includes the Office of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure (OAC—lead for the program), Divisions of Computer and Network Systems (CNS), Computing and Communication Foundation (CCF) and Information and Intelligent Systems (IIS) within the Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering ( CISE ); Divisions of Chemical, Bioengineering, Environmental and Transport Systems (CBET) and Civil, Mechanical and Manufacturing Innovation (CMMI) within the Directorate for Engineering ( ENG ); Division of Graduate Education (DGE) within the Directorate for STEM Education ( EDU ); Directorate for Geosciences ( GEO ); Divisions of Astronomical Sciences (AST), Chemistry (CHE), Materials Research (DMR), and Physics (PHY) within the Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences ( MPS ); and Division of Social and Economic Sciences (SES) within the Directorate for Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences ( SBE ). All projects must advance CI training and education goals for CI-enabled fundamental research, in addition to addressing specific domain needs. Not all directorates/divisions/programs are participating at the same level, and some have specific research and education priorities, as described below.

OAC supports all three communities of CI Professionals , CI Contributors , and CI Users , both current and future generations. OAC encourages proposals on technical and research CI professional skills development of CI Professionals . These include technical skills such as network engineering, cybersecurity of advanced research CI and scientific workflows, and software installation and maintenance, as well as research support skills such as porting legacy scientific research software and workflows to HPC and cloud platforms, advanced visualization, supporting scientific gateways, and required domain knowledge. OAC also encourages proposals, relevant to the domain directorates, for training as well as cross-training of the computational and data scientists and engineers who are current and future CI Contributors in contributor-level CI topics such as scalable algorithms and scientific software development, big data analytics methods, modeling and simulation, and computer architecture and middleware, and in advanced domain topics such as domain-specific tools, datasets, and models. OAC is also interested in the larger goal of preparing the Nation's scientific and engineering research workforce—well-versed in basic CI and computational and data-driven S&E literacy—with an understanding of computation as the third pillar and data-driven science as the fourth pillar of the scientific discovery process. This CI User workforce preparation starts with undergraduate students across all disciplines and continues to graduate students and postdoctoral fellows, particularly in disciplines and areas with low levels of CI. OAC also encourages relevant proposals of overlapping concerns with other OAC programs such as Big Data Regional Innovation Hubs (BD Hubs), Campus Cyberinfrastructure (CC*), Cyberinfrastructure for Sustained Scientific Innovation (CSSI), and Cybersecurity Innovation for Cyberinfrastructure (CICI) programs.

CISE 's Division of Computer and Network Systems (CNS) supports research and education projects in core areas of computer systems and networking technologies. CNS welcomes proposals that support communities of CI Professionals, CI Contributors, and CI Users that focus on designing, building, analyzing, and measuring future computing and networked systems.

CISE 's Division of Computing and Communication Foundations (CCF) supports research and education projects that develop new knowledge in four core programs: Algorithmic Foundations; Communications and Information Foundations; Foundations of Emerging Technologies; and Software and Hardware Foundations. CCF welcomes proposals that broadly enhance any of the CCF-relevant communities of CI Professionals, CI Contributors, and CI Users in consultation with the Cognizant Program Officer. The division is particularly interested in proposals addressing the needs of CCF-relevant communities in quantum and semiconductor research.

CISE 's Division of Information and Intelligent Systems (IIS) supports research and education in artificial intelligence, data science, human-computer interaction, and computer graphics. IIS is not highlighting specific areas in the context of this solicitation. Rather, it welcomes proposals that broadly enhance the IIS-relevant communities of CI Professionals, CI Contributors, and CI Users in consultation with the Cognizant Program Officer.

EDU supports the development of a well-prepared workforce of scientists, technicians, engineers, mathematicians, and educators. EDU is interested in engaging the CI and education research communities to use advanced CI and other approaches to analyze, visualize, and harness data to better understand issues of workforce development in S&E. Topics of particular interest include preparation of the workforce in areas of data security and privacy in connection with EDU's investment in the CyberCorps®: Scholarships for Service ( SFS ) and Secure and Trustworthy Cyberspace ( SaTC ) programs, as well as the other aspects associated with preparation of the technical workforce for proficiency in using advanced CI, which is supported by EDU's Advanced Technological Education (ATE) program. In this context, EDU is interested in supporting: (a) innovations in formal/informal educational settings that lead to the broadest participation by all learners; (b) advances in pedagogical curricular design, and introduction of research and internship opportunities; and (c) assessments of training, learning and program evaluation. EDU especially welcomes proposals that will pair well with the efforts of the NSF Eddie Bernice Johnson INCLUDES program (NSF INCLUDES) to develop STEM talent from all sectors in our society. Collaborations are encouraged between CyberTraining proposals and existing NSF INCLUDES projects, provided these collaborations strengthen both the CyberTraining and NSF INCLUDES projects. Prospective PIs may wish to also submit substantially different proposals to the EDU Core Research (ECR) program, which welcomes proposals seeking to advance fundamental research on the learning of challenging CI content in formal/informal settings, exploring the evaluation of models such as collective impact, and studying the development of the STEM professional workforce.

ENG 's Division of Chemical, Bioengineering, Environmental and Transport Systems (CBET) has a special interest in proposals focused on (i) developing multi-scale models that enable fundamental understanding of the relationships between molecular-level and macroscopic chemical, biological, and physical phenomenon; (ii) establishing workflows and/or best practices for data generation, analysis, and storage that address the long-standing issues of reproducibility and uncertainty quantification; and (iii) effective implementation of advanced computational methods (e.g., machine learning) toward solving relevant engineering problems.

ENG 's Division of Civil, Mechanical and Manufacturing Innovation (CMMI) encourages proposals on any topics that would enable the research community to more effectively use CI to make new advances in potentially transformative fundamental research in any CMMI-funded fields or to lead in the development of new CI to catalyze major research discoveries in CMMI-funded fields. CMMI supports the integration of modeling, computation, data analysis and interdisciplinary research partnerships and perspectives to advance fundamental knowledge. CMMI seeks proposals for training that open pathways for discovering, developing, accessing, sharing, understanding, and using powerful CI tools, data, platforms and ecosystems to enhance CMMI researchers' productivity and impact. The division is particularly interested in proposals that will enable the CMMI community to use CI to develop new modes of discovery and to lead in CI development. For additional information on CMMI CI priorities, please see https://www.nsf.gov/eng/cmmi/about.jsp .

GEO supports fundamental research that advances the frontiers of knowledge and drives technological innovation while improving our understanding of the many processes that affect the global environment. GEO is interested in atmospheric and geospace science, Earth science, ocean science, and all areas of polar science. GEO is interested in supporting the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) techniques, including the provisioning of AI-ready data, computational techniques for AI, and using trustworthy physics-informed AI approaches. GEO also aims to advance open science principles within the geosciences, including reproducibility/replicability (R&R), the FAIR principles for scientific data management and stewardship, the CARE principles for Indigenous data governance, and the TRUST principles for digital repositories. In addition, GEO is interested in proposals that would provide training, education, and career development to enable GEO research communities to more effectively access and adopt CI, including in the following research areas:

GEO 's Division of Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences (AGS) is interested in answering fundamental science questions related to atmospheric and geospace research, including a wide variety of important processes that impact humans and society, such as space weather, tropospheric weather, physical and dynamic meteorology, climate, and air quality.

GEO 's Division of Earth Sciences (EAR) is interested in improving our understanding of the structure, composition, and evolution of the Earth, the life it supports, and the processes that govern its behavior. EAR interests include research in terrestrial and solid-earth sciences.

GEO 's Division of Ocean Sciences (OCE) is interested in activities that advance understanding of all aspects of the global oceans and ocean basins, including their interactions with people and the integrated Earth system.

GEO 's Office of Polar Programs (OPP) supports all areas of research in and about the Arctic and Antarctic regions; polar proposals are encouraged to consider the recommendations made in the 2013 NSF-funded "Cyberinfrastructure for Polar Sciences" workshop report .

When making investments, GEO seeks a geographically diverse set of institutions (including those in EPSCoR jurisdictions). GEO is not highlighting specific areas in the context of this solicitation. Rather, it welcomes proposal that broadly enhance the GEO-relevant communities of CI Professionals, CI Contributors, and CI Users in consultation with the Cognizant Program Officer.

MPS 's Division of Astronomical Sciences (AST) welcomes proposals, in all classes, that emphasize wide utility and demonstrate a broad base of community support.

MPS 's Division of Chemistry (CHE) recognizes the value of CI and CI Professionals to a broad range of existing and emerging scientific areas relevant to fundamental chemical research. CHE encourages proposals in all classes that will enhance CI-enabled capabilities and community engagement. Support from CHE will aim to increase CI expertise among chemists of all levels, from undergraduates to professors.

MPS 's Division of Materials Research (DMR) is interested in supporting Pilot and Implementation projects that would train the materials research community at career levels from undergraduate to independent researcher in activities that support CyberTraining in the use, development, and implementation of CI across fundamental materials research. Important is training in the creative and innovative application of community CI to advance fundamental materials research and/or its translation to societal impact. Of particular interest is CI training related to data-intensive and computational CI, and CI that enables or enhances the integration of data with experiment, computation, and theory in support of the Materials Genome Initiative, as envisioned in Designing Materials to Revolutionize and Engineer our Future ( DMREF ). Mechanisms may include: workshops, conferences, and summer institutes designed to address specific needs of DMREF or the materials research community more broadly, as well as other training activities to promote adoption, use, and creation of CI. Educational materials developed in the context of CyberTraining should be advertised, findable, accessible, and available for reuse across the materials research community. DMR encourages mechanisms to evaluate the effectiveness of the activity.

MPS 's Division of Physics (PHY) is interested in supporting workshops and summer schools focused on training students and postdoctoral fellows in computational methods on advanced computing architectures. High-performance computing and data analytics methods are to be introduced in the context of specific scientific applications relevant to the MPS communities. Lectures must be accompanied by problem sessions and hands-on activities on the actual machines. Online sharing of workshop materials and recorded presentations on dedicated websites is strongly encouraged.

SBE supports rigorous methods to discover fundamental principles of human behavior at levels ranging from cells to society, from neurons to neighborhoods, and across space and time. The SBE directorate supports research that advances computational social science and analytic methods using social network, sensor, text, video, administrative, and other big data. SBE seeks proposals that will advance training for research communities of CI Professionals, CI Contributors, and CI Users. SBE welcomes proposals that address research training challenges, such as educating SBE scientists in computational tools and skills for understanding and promoting economic opportunity, security, civic and political engagement, health, and well-being in different regions and populations, many of which require interdisciplinary sociotechnical collaborations and team science.

Investments through this solicitation at the undergraduate and graduate levels complement NSF's Improving Undergraduate STEM Education ( IUSE ) and graduate education strategic frameworks, respectively. IUSE is NSF's comprehensive, Foundation-wide framework for an integrated vision of the agency's investments in undergraduate STEM education. Similarly, NSF has published a Strategic Framework for Investments in Graduate Education .

High-Throughput Computing Resources

Proposals may request high-throughput computing (HTC) resources through the Partnership to Advance Throughput Computing ( PATh ) projec t supported by NSF.

Proposers should describe the request in a Supplementary Document no longer than two pages with a technical description of, and justification for, the requested HTC computing resources that includes (a) the expected number of self-contained tasks per ensemble – note that each task can be packaged into one or more batch job; (b) the resource requirements for each task type in the ensemble – for example, requirements for cores, memory, wall-time, and scratch space; (c) the expected number of ensembles; (d) the expected input and output data requirements for each task type; (e) the expected number and size of shared input files within an ensemble – expected number of times each file is read per ensemble.

Proposers should include "HTCAccess" (one word without space) as a keyword on the Project Summary page, at the end of the Overview section (before the section on Intellectual Merit) if incorporating this request into the proposal. Proposers may visit PATh credit accounts web page (see https://path-cc.io/services/credit-accounts/ ) for more information on the available HTC resources which can be allocated through this program.

See Section V.A. Proposal Preparation Instructions, Supplementary Documents, for more information on how to describe the HTC/PATh request.

Cloud Computing Resources

Proposals may request cloud computing resources to use public clouds such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), IBM Cloud, and Microsoft Azure. Cloud computing resources described in proposals may be obtained through an external cloud access entity supported by NSF's Enabling Access to Cloud Computing Resources for CISE Research and Education (Cloud Access) Program .

Proposers should describe the request in a Supplementary Document no longer than two pages with (a) which public cloud provider will be used, (b) anticipated annual and total costs for accessing the desired cloud computing resources, based on pricing currently available from the public cloud computing providers; and (c) a technical description of, and justification for, the requested cloud computing resources. The NSF Budget should not include any such costs for accessing public cloud computing resources via CloudBank.org. The total cost of the project, including this cloud computing resource request from CloudBank.org, may not exceed the budget limit described in this solicitation.

For example, consider a proposal submitted to the Pilot class, which has a total proposal budget limit of $300,000. If a PI wishes to request $20,000 in cloud computing resources through CloudBank, then his/her proposal should request, as part of the proposal budget, no more than $280,000. The remaining $20,000 for cloud computing resources should be specified in the Supplementary Document. If a proposal is a collaborative project with two PIs from two different organizations, then each PI may request cloud computing resources separately through independent Supplementary Documents as long as the total budget (on the budget pages plus in the Supplementary Documents) does not exceed $300,000.

Proposers should include "CloudAccess" (one word without spaces) as a keyword on the Project Summary page, at the end of the Overview section (before the section on Intellectual Merit) if incorporating this request into the proposal. Proposers may contact CloudBank.org (see https://www.cloudbank.org/faq ) for consultation on estimating the budget for using cloud computing resources.

See Section V.A. Proposal Preparation Instructions, Supplementary Documents, for more information on how to describe the CloudAccess request as well as the associated budget.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant or Cooperative Agreement

Estimated Number of Awards: 18

Up to 6 Pilot , 9 Small, and 3 Medium Implementation awards are anticipated.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $9,300,000

Estimated program budget, number of awards and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

The categories of proposers eligible to submit proposals to the National Science Foundation are identified in the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Chapter I.E. Unaffiliated individuals are not eligible to submit proposals in response to this solicitation.

Who May Serve as PI:

To ensure relevance to community needs and to facilitate adoption, those proposals of interest to one or more domain divisions must include at least one PI/co-PI with expertise relevant to the targeted research discipline. All proposals shall include at least one PI/co-PI with expertise relevant to OAC.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI: 1

An individual may serve as PI, co-PI, or other senior personnel on only one Pilot or Implementation proposal submitted to the CyberTraining program per competition. In the event that an individual exceeds this limit, proposals will be accepted based on the earliest date and time of proposal submission, i.e., the first proposal will be accepted, and the remainder will be returned without review. No exceptions will be made.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Not Applicable
