https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/national-stem-teacher-corps-pilot-program/nsf24-577/solicitation

Title: National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program
Synopsis: Synopsis of Program:
In response to the CHIPS Act of 2022 (Pub.L. 117-167), NSF is establishing the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program. The purpose of this program is to elevate the profession of STEM teaching by establishing a National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program to recognize outstanding STEM teachers in our Nation’s classrooms, reward them for their accomplishments, elevate their public profile, and create rewarding career paths to which all STEM teachers can aspire, both to prepare future STEM researchers and to create a scientifically literate public.
With this solicitation, NSF is inviting proposals to establish an initial set of Regional Alliances responsible for (a) recruiting eligible applicants to become members of the National STEM Teacher Corps (see definitions in section II.A.); (b) screening, interviewing, and selecting members; and (c) supporting other activities detailed in the Program Description and the law (136 STAT. 1515).
Each Alliance will be awarded as a cooperative agreement that represents the breadth of activities important to National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program and serves to elevate the public profile of STEM teachers within the region. Collectively these Alliances are expected to have a national impact. 
The National STEM Teacher Corps also welcomes planning proposals submitted at any time during the year. See Section II.E for additional information about the preparation and submission of planning proposals.
Award Type: standard, coop
Program ID: 506304
NSF/PD Num: nsf24577
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2024-05-23
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/national-stem-teacher-corps-pilot-program/nsf24-577
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program

I. Introduction

NSF is establishing the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot per the statutory requirements in the CHIPS Act of 2022 (Pub.L. 117-167), Sec. 10311(c). The purpose of the National STEM Teacher Corps is to elevate the STEM teacher profession by recognizing outstanding STEM educators who advance equity in our Nation’s preK-12 classrooms. The pilot program rewards teachers for their accomplishments and elevates their public profile. The National STEM Teacher Corps Members serve as professional models to whom all teachers can aspire. The National STEM Teacher Corps Alliances will provide professional development, mentorship, and other support to STEM teachers, with specific attention to teachers certified in non-traditional or alternative methods, with the intent of enhancing the quality and preparedness of the STEM Teachers. The implementation of the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program is informed by previous programs sponsored by the National Science Foundation designed to transform STEM teacher preparation and professional development through collaboration and partnerships.

The National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program will support alliances tasked with identifying and selecting a cadre of teachers poised to contribute to substantial improvements in STEM education by heightening the STEM learning experience for all students which includes those from underserved and underrepresented communities. In addition to recognizing outstanding teachers, the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program will promote the retention of excellent STEM teachers and provide them with rewarding career paths. The recognition and retention of innovative STEM teachers will help to improve STEM education and in turn, heighten the STEM learning experiences and achievement of all students. By enhancing all students’ access to high-quality STEM learning experiences, the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program will prepare students for and attract students to future STEM careers and foster a scientifically literate public.

The National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program invites collaborative and innovative Regional Alliance proposals that recognize, support, help to retain, and uplift the STEM teachers, schools, school districts, and community partners that they serve. The goal of each Regional Alliance must be to leverage the talents, skills, abilities, and resources of teacher-leaders, campus leaders, and faculty at IHEs to create opportunities for synergistic and innovative collaboration among all Alliance partners to enhance the preparation of PreK-12 educators and further develop teaching practices that advance STEM education and the teaching profession.

As described in the table below, the NSF will make awards to Regional Alliances that submit competitive projects that fulfill the goals and duties of the program. Each Regional Alliance is responsible for:

Creating and fostering communities of practice by engaging local partners, which may include state educational agencies (SEA) local educational agencies (LEA), institutions of higher education (IHE), STEM organizations, education nonprofit organizations, and/or a private entity, including a STEM-related business to develop and serve the community of National STEM Teacher Corps members within the region, coordinate professional development activities, including activities led by National STEM Teacher Corps members, connect National STEM Teacher Corps members with existing educator professional development programs and coordinate members' involvement as cooperating teachers or mentors.

Screening, interviewing, and selecting members of the National STEM Teacher Corps with a focus on leveling strategies to recruit from the full spectrum of diverse talent that society has to offer. This includes recruiting STEM educators who support efforts to advance equity based on race, ethnicity, sex, socioeconomic status, age, disability status, geography, and language ability.

Seeking opportunities to involve teachers who are not members of the National STEM Teacher Corps to participate in alliance activities that enhance teacher effectiveness and increase teacher retention rates across the region; teachers that have been certified in nontraditional methods may also be supported by an Alliance.

NSF – National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program

REGIONAL ALLIANCES

Will engage local partners (IHE, LEAs, SEAs, STEM Orgs, education non-profits, private STEM industry, etc.)

National STEM Teacher Corps Members

Alliance Responsibilities

Alliance Partners

serve a 4-yr term;

receive an annual stipend of no less than $10,000;

participate in professional development;

participate in Alliance and National STEM Teacher Corps events/initiatives;

work with other STEM Teacher Corps members to develop and improve innovative teaching practices;

continue to excel in teaching the member’s own students

create and foster communities of practice by engaging local partners;

coordinate professional development activities, including activities led by National STEM Teacher Corps members;

connect National STEM Teacher Corps members with existing educator professional development programs and coordinate members’ involvement as cooperating; teachers and/or mentors;

seek opportunities to involve and serve teachers who are not members of the National STEM Teacher Corps of the National STEM Teacher Corps in Alliance activities.

contribute to and serve Nation STEM Teacher Corps community;

connect Regional Alliances and STEM Teacher Corps members with existing educator professional development programs;

seek opportunities to engage with teachers who are not STEM Teacher Corps members;

build partnerships with other education organizations.

The NSF invites proposals from Regional Alliances from the Northeast (New England and/or Mid-Atlantic), South (South Atlantic, East South Central, and/or West South Central), West (Mountain and/or Pacific), and Midwest (West North Central and/or East North Central) regions and divisions as defined by the US Census Bureau ( us_regdiv.pdf (census.gov) . While Alliance compositions are flexible, the National STEM Teacher Corps will seek to fund at least one alliance from each of the regions. Regional Alliances do not have to contain all states within the region.

Regional Alliances must identify a critical need that the Alliance will aim to serve within the specified region. The Regional Alliance must also contain school educational partners and/or local educational partners in all states within the Alliance. The Regional Alliance is also encouraged to include educational partners, local non-profits, etc., that support and enhance the goals of the Alliance. Regional Alliances should identify the topical area(s)(i.e. science, math2, etc.) to be supported within the Alliance.

Regional Alliances must outline the ways in which the Alliance intends to elevate the STEM teacher profession in the region. Alliances must submit a detailed plan on how they plan to fulfill all required duties (see duties of the Alliance below). Alliances are also encouraged to outline the ways in which the Alliance will work to support teachers that have entered STEM teaching in non-traditional methods (i.e. alternative certification, etc.).

The National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program complements other STEM Education programs in the Directorate of STEM Education (EDU), such as The Robert Noyce Scholarship program (Noyce), Discovery Research PreK-12, (DRK-12), and Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching (PAMEST), by providing additional opportunities to recognize and promote STEM teaching and learning. DRK-12 is the only NSF program whose primary purpose is to support applied research and development at PreK-12 levels of formal education in all areas of STEM. Its research-focused Teaching Strand aims to contribute to the development of science of teaching. It complements the Noyce program’s Research track while also complementing both PAEMST’s and Noyce’s efforts to recognize teachers as essential members of the STEM workforce. Noyce aims to recruit, prepare, and retain highly effective elementary and secondary mathematics and science teachers and teacher leaders who persist as classroom teachers in high-need Local Education Agencies. The National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program will augment the existing programs by highlighting the contributions of STEM teachers who have persisted over 5 years in the field of education and demonstrated continued excellence in teaching PreK-12 STEM content. The National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program will leverage the brilliance of STEM educators to elevate public awareness of the outstanding contributions of STEM educators across the country.

II. Program Description

A. Program Overview

The NSF’s National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program will fund Regional Alliances that demonstrate exceptional ability to fulfill the duties of the Alliances in an innovative and robust manner. NSF Seeks to fund Regional Alliances that will enact the goals of the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program in a novel and complete manner. Regional Alliances should aim to elevate the STEM teacher profession by recognizing a diverse cadre of outstanding STEM educators that advance equity in our Nation’s PreK –12 classrooms. The Regional Alliances should propose a plan for rewarding teachers for their accomplishments and elevating their public profile. Regional Alliances will be responsible for recruiting, screening, and selecting diverse STEM Teacher Corps members that serve as professional models to whom all teachers can aspire. The STEM Teacher Regional Alliances will provide professional development support to STEM teachers, including support for teachers certified in non-traditional or alternative methods, with the intent of enhancing the quality and preparedness of the STEM Teachers and to create a scientifically literate public.

Definitions

STEM Teacher- A state-licensed educator that teaches in one or more of the fields of science, technology, engineering, and/or mathematics.

Alliance/Regional Alliance- Communities of practice consisting of a lead IHE, that collaborates with a consortium consisting of Regional Alliance partners.

Regional Alliance Partner - Entities that are part of a Regional Alliance including Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs), State Educational Agencies (SEA), Local Education Agencies (LEA), education nonprofit associations, cross-sector STEM organizations, and/or private entities, including STEM-related businesses.

STEM Teacher Corps Member – An applicant that is selected by a Regional Alliance to be a member of the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program and agrees to fulfill the commitment and duties as outlined by the Alliance.

High-Need School— The term “high-need school” means a public elementary school or secondary school that is located in an area in which the percentage of students from families with incomes below the poverty line is 30 percent or more. Section 2211(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 19 6631(b)).

Professional Development—The term ‘‘professional development’’ has the meaning given the term in section 20 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 24 (20 U.S.C. 7801).

B. Regional Alliances

Composition -Regional Alliances must include a State Educational Agency (SEA) and/or a Local Education Agency (LEA) from each of the Regional Alliance states (definitions of an SEA and LEA provided in CHIPS Act of 2022 Sec.10311(c)(2)(B)(ii)). Alliances may also include education nonprofit associations, a cross sector STEM organization, and/or another type of entity, including a for-profit STEM-related business. Alliance proposals require letters of collaboration from all school and community partners, appropriate for the size and scope of the Alliance’s efforts.

Regional Alliances should be intentional about the selection of partners to ensure that the composition of the Alliance is well aligned with the identified needs of the region and that selected partners are capable of contributing to the support of its members and teachers. Alliance partners should be well aligned with the goals of the Regional Alliance and contribute directly to the aims as outlined by the Regional Alliance.

Alliances should aim to include PIs and Co-PIs that are both education and STEM faculty as prior research has indicated more positive results when there is a balance (CETP, 2001).

Duties of Regional Alliances - Activities carried out by the Regional Alliances must include, but are not limited to, the following:

(A) Creating and fostering communities of practice by engaging local partners to:

(i) develop and serve the community of National STEM Teacher Corps members within the region, in coordination with local partners, to carry out day-to-day activities including, but not limited to:

(ii) coordinating professional development activities, including activities led by National STEM Teacher Corps members;

(iii) connecting National STEM Teacher Corps members with existing educator professional development programs and coordinate members’ involvement as cooperating teachers or mentors;

(iv) seeking opportunities to involve and serve teachers who are not members of the National STEM Teacher Corps in National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program activities; and

(v) building partnerships with existing education organizations and other efforts by SEAs and LEAs that operate programs relevant to the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program and its Regional Alliances.

(B) Recruiting eligible applicants, with a focus on recruiting STEM educators who support efforts to advance equity based on race, ethnicity, sex, gender, socioeconomic status, age, disability, geography, language proficiency, and to promote access to high-quality and inclusive STEM learning experiences;

(C) Screening, interviewing, and selecting members of the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot using procedures and standards provided by the NSF's National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program;

(D) Coordinating the online network that supports all National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot members in the region;

(E) Convening meetings of National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot members in a region;

(F) Creating opportunities for the professional growth of National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot members, with a focus on increasing STEM student achievement and STEM participation rates for all students, particularly those from rural and/or high-need schools; and

(G) Supporting the retention and success of National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot members in the region.

Content and Grade-level Specificity - Proposals should specify the content and grade levels that will be of focus within the Regional Alliance. Alliances may choose to focus on a specific grade-level band (e.g., PreK, K-5, 6-8, 9-12) or PreK-12, as well as a specific topic or content area (e.g., science, mathematics, engineering, technology, CTE) within STEM. This decision should be made in collaboration with partners of the Alliance, as well as participating school districts and schools from which National STEM Teacher Corps members will be selected. Additionally, the focused designation should be data-driven, based upon actual needs of the region (e.g., STEM teacher recruitment/retention needs, student achievement results in STEM, student participation in STEM, etc.). Alliances can focus on all eligible STEM content areas and are able to select National STEM Teacher Corps members from eligible teachers in grades PreK-12.

Regional Alliances Obligations -Reginal Alliances must:

Fulfill all duties of the Alliance as described in this solicitation.

Ensure that all selected members meet the minimum requirements for membership as set by NSF’s National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program.

Report on the National STEM Teacher Corps members’ teaching status and continued support for 3 years after the life of the project.

Adhere to all other standard requirements as specified in the PAPPG.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Cooperative Agreement

Estimated Number of Awards: 8 to 10

8-10 Regional Alliance Awards made as Cooperative Agreements

NSF also anticipates funding up to 15 planning grants, subject to relevance and availability of funds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $1,000,000 to $5,000,000

Up to $35,000,000 to support up to 10 Regional Alliances for an initial five years with the opportunity to extend the Alliances cooperative agreement up to 10 years.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members.

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members.

Who May Serve as PI:

The Principal Investigator must hold a terminal degree in a STEM discipline, Education, STEM Education, or a related field.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

An eligible institution may submit no more than one proposal in response to this solicitation. An institution may have only one active National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program award at any given time.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:

An individual may serve as PI or Co-PI of one proposal submitted in response to this solicitation.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Submission of Letters of Intent is optional. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Letters of Intent: Submission of Letters of Intent is optional. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Not Applicable
