https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/national-stem-teacher-corps-pilot-program/nsf24-577/solicitation
Summary Of Program Requirements
General Information
Program Title:

National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program

Synopsis of Program:

In response to the CHIPS Act of 2022 (Pub.L. 117-167), NSF is establishing the National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program. The purpose of this program is to elevate the profession of STEM teaching by establishing a National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program to recognize outstanding STEM teachers in our Nation’s classrooms, reward them for their accomplishments, elevate their public profile, and create rewarding career paths to which all STEM teachers can aspire, both to prepare future STEM researchers and to create a scientifically literate public.

With this solicitation, NSF is inviting proposals to establish an initial set of Regional Alliances responsible for (a) recruiting eligible applicants to become members of the National STEM Teacher Corps (see definitions in section II.A.); (b) screening, interviewing, and selecting members; and (c) supporting other activities detailed in the Program Description and the law (136 STAT. 1515).

Each Alliance will be awarded as a cooperative agreement that represents the breadth of activities important to National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program and serves to elevate the public profile of STEM teachers within the region. Collectively these Alliances are expected to have a national impact.

The National STEM Teacher Corps also welcomes planning proposals submitted at any time during the year. See Section II.E for additional information about the preparation and submission of planning proposals.

Cognizant Program Officer(s):

Please note that the following information is current at the time of publishing. See program website for any updates to the points of contact.

General inquiries may be addressed to:, telephone: 703-292-8670, email: stemteachercorps@nsf.gov

Applicable Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number(s):

47.076 --- STEM Education
Award Information
Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Cooperative Agreement

Estimated Number of Awards: 8 to 10

8-10 Regional Alliance Awards made as Cooperative Agreements

NSF also anticipates funding up to 15 planning grants, subject to relevance and availability of funds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $1,000,000 to $5,000,000

Up to $35,000,000 to support up to 10 Regional Alliances for an initial five years with the opportunity to extend the Alliances cooperative agreement up to 10 years.

Eligibility Information
Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members.

Who May Serve as PI:

The Principal Investigator must hold a terminal degree in a STEM discipline, Education, STEM Education, or a related field.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

An eligible institution may submit no more than one proposal in response to this solicitation. An institution may have only one active National STEM Teacher Corps Pilot Program award at any given time.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:

An individual may serve as PI or Co-PI of one proposal submitted in response to this solicitation.