https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/capacity-infrastructure-capacity-biological-research/nsf23-580/solicitation

Title: Capacity: Biological Collections
Synopsis: The Biological Collections Programmatic Area supports major improvements to or digitization of biological collections and collection-based information, enabling the advancement of biological understanding in important research areas, and increasing the broader applicability of collections.  Types of biological collections that are supported include established vouchered biological and paleontological collections, established living stocks and culture collections, and jointly-curated ancillary collections such as preserved tissues and libraries of genetic and genomic materials. Biological research collections provide critical research infrastructure for the biological sciences by allowing researchers to conduct a range of research including: documenting biodiversity and ecosystems, understanding species, evolution and organismal systems, quantifying environmental shifts, and providing knowledge for agricultural, biomedical, and manufacturing efforts. The scope of the proposed projects include either: improvements that secure existing biological collections (including ownership transfer), or thematic-based digitization projects that increase research potential and accessibility of biological collections-related data. Requests for improvements should demonstrate a clear and urgent need. Digitization requests must align with research priorities and should define, or partner with, a thematic network of collections that extends the value of the specimens for research.  Projects that are not supported in this programmatic area are establishment of new collections or living stocks, collecting activities, single-taxon natural history collections that are narrowly-focused, federally-owned collections, or digitization of literature sources, observation records, or other library items. Projects are expected to produce quality products, result in important science outcomes that will be achieved by the users of the resource, and have the potential to be used by a community of researchers beyond a single research team.
Proposed projects are expected to provide:

Evidence of the collection's importance to NSF BIO-funded research or biological conservation on a regional, national, or international scale.
A description of how the value of the collection will be enhanced by support from the Biological Collections programmatic area and how its contributions will further advance biological sciences.
Demonstration of an organizational commitment to adequate staffing and operating support that will result in long-term maintenance of the collection, associated data, and ancillary products.
Education and outreach contributions related to the collection's activities and demonstration of how the collection contributes to public understanding and appreciation of science and the diversity of life.

Improvements to biological collections
Established Vouchered Biological and Paleontological Collections. Requests will be considered to make improvements in established voucher collections for sustained, accurate, and efficient accessibility of the collection to the biological research community. Such improvements include, but are not limited to, securing and organizing specimens and related data, and increasing the accessibility of these data. Collections supported include those housing complete specimens of organisms, parts of organisms, or direct artifacts of organisms (e.g., recorded sounds and fossilized footprints) and ancillary data such as preserved tissues and/or other physical samples. Also eligible are collections that maintain ancillary material documenting the environmental context of the primary organism (e.g., soil and water samples, temperature and precipitation records, specimen-based geographic information, field notes). Only ancillary material that can be linked to vouchered specimens will be considered eligible. Established Living Stocks and Culture Collections. Funding can be provided to secure and improve existing collections of living organisms (including viruses and bacteriophages) used in NSF BIO-funded basic biological research. Proposals will be considered that implement innovative handling of living stocks or demonstrate well-defined improvements in existing collections. Support for establishing new collections or collecting specimens is not allowable.Requests are expected to describe activities that emphasize the security, maintenance, and provision of living organisms. Support for development of derivatives (e.g., genetic data) or other material relevant to the study of the sources may be provided but support for original research by collection staff on these derivatives or other materials should be sought from appropriate research programs at NSF, and at other public and private agencies. When appropriate, the collection should interface with relevant national efforts that provide an integrated framework for collections data.
Transfer of Ownership. Funding may be requested to move valuable established collections to a new institutional home or to consolidate collections. Requests for moving or consolidating must include an explicit plan for the activity. Proposals may target either Living Stocks or Vouchered Biological or Paleontological Collections. Proposals may include opportunities to salvage a significant collection that otherwise would be lost, or to preserve collections that facilitate critical knowledge discovery or that enable substantial growth in a scientific discipline. Authorization of ownership transfer and moving estimates should be documented (see Infrastructure Capacity for Biology solicitation; Authorities and Cost Basis) as Supplementary Documents.
Thematic-based Digitization of Biological Collections. Proposed digitization projects are expected to enhance the national resource of digital data documenting existing vouchered biological and paleontological collections. Proposals are encouraged that establish or extend research-ready networks where existing specimens and digital media connect to associated data, including genetic, phenotypic, behavioral, or environmental data that comprise an extended Thematic Collection Network (TCN) or as a Partner to an Existing Network (PEN). A TCN should conform to the concepts of an "Extended Specimen Network" described by the NSF funded BCON Research Coordination Network. These concepts convey a "perspective of the biodiversity specimen as extending beyond the singular physical object, to potentially limitless additional physical preparations and digital resources." At the same time, digitization efforts should remain focused on a research theme and the physical specimens owned by the collections involved. Paleontological collections are included and may be integrated with biological collections if relevant to a research theme or may be digitized around a biological research theme unique to the past. Awardees are expected to be engaged in collaboration with national and international scale partners (e.g., iDigBio) for training activities, outreach, and the development of appropriate technology and standards to produce an interoperable network.
Proposals should present innovative plans, strong collaborations among large and small institutions, and mechanisms to build upon existing digitization projects. Proposals that increase efficiency and breadth are a priority. Collaboration with federally held collections is encouraged, but digitization of federal collections cannot be supported with NSF funds. However, specimens owned by federal institutions may be pertinent for a research theme. In those cases, plans for integration of the existing data from all specimens should be articulated (for example, by including representatives from the federal collection as meeting participants, sharing workflows and file formats, etc.).
Thematic Collection Networks (TCNs). Proposals should describe two- to four-year projects to digitize existing specimens based on a research-ready theme. Specimens to be digitized should be of critical importance to the research theme and the criteria for the specimen assessment should be indicated in the proposal. Shared infrastructure among the collections involved should be identified along with deliverables that support the research-ready theme of the project. Proposals should define metrics for assessment, identify specific needs for community involvement, and demonstrate links to other collections related to the digitization effort. Priority is given to projects that approach digitization in innovative ways, through integration of data, methodology and techniques that are cost effective, and drive down the financial and personnel costs of digitization of specimens and/or speed up the process of digitization.
Partnerships to Existing Networks (PENs). Proposals that partner with and extend the efforts of ongoing NSF-funded TCNs are encouraged. New partners must increase the number of specimens digitized in the ongoing project and fill gaps not addressed by the specimens in an existing TCN. Any TCN which is either in progress on its NSF award or which has established itself as a sustainable entity (i.e. part of professional society activities, part of regional collaborations at the universities, or supported by funding other than NSF) is eligible for including new partners. It is expected that PEN proposals will work with the TCN to develop a budget that is compatible with these collaborative projects. The PEN proposals should adequately indicate how the partner collection will add information to the ongoing project, fill in gaps in digitized data and increase value to the efforts for the research theme. The broader impacts should be specific for the PEN institution, but also indicate how these impacts enhance the TCN. To indicate that the PEN will appropriately integrate with the existing TCN, a letter of collaboration (format found under the instructions for Supplemental Documents, below) from the lead of the existing TCN should be uploaded in the Supplemental Documents section. It is expected that PEN proposals will use some of the infrastructure of the existing network, thus providing an efficient means to further the impact of the existing network. The length of a PEN proposal should be adequate to describe the activity and the integration into the existing network; a full 15 pages may not be necessary for these types of proposals.
Proposals accepted anytime: 1
Program ID: 505541
NSF/PD Num: nsf23580
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2018-08-31
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/capacity-biological-collections/pd18-1197
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Infrastructure Capacity for Biological Research (Capacity)

I. Introduction

Transformative discoveries in the biological sciences are often catalyzed by the development and dissemination of new research tools and methods. For such advancements to take place, research infrastructure needs to be supported at all stages of its life-cycle that includes: Innovation (the design of novel or greatly-improved research infrastructure), Capacity (the scaling of or major improvements to infrastructure), and Sustainability (continued operation of existing infrastructure). The Division of Biological Infrastructure (DBI) supports this life-cycle of research resources in biology by having three different programs focused on each of these important stages of development of research infrastructure in resources and services. The goals of the Capacity program are aligned with the second stage in this cycle to advance contemporary biology in any research area supported by the Directorate for Biological Sciences at NSF.

Proposers should review the Introduction section of the NSF PAPPG for a general description of research topics normally outside the scope of NSF funding such as disease, clinical, or drug design related research. Proposals to develop or provide infrastructure that is primarily to enable research in these excluded topics are not eligible for support under this solicitation and will be returned without review.

II. Program Description

The Infrastructure Capacity for Biology (Capacity) Program supports the scaling of or major improvements to research tools, products, and services that advance contemporary biology in any research area supported by the Directorate for Biological Sciences (BIO) at NSF. The Capacity Program focuses on building capacity in research infrastructure that is broadly applicable to a wide range of researchers in three programmatic areas: Cyberinfrastructure, Biological Collections, and Biological Field Stations and Marine Laboratories. This program will also accept proposals for planning activities or workshops to facilitate coordination that may be necessary in building capacity in infrastructure that meets the needs of a research community. Areas not included in this program are instrumentation (PIs should submit to the MRI program); and, projects that develop infrastructure for a specific research project, laboratory, or institution (PIs should submitted to the relevant BIO programs that would normally support that research). Projects are expected to produce quality products, result in important science outcomes that will be achieved by the users of the resource, be openly accessible to a broad scientific and education community, and have the potential to be used by a community of researchers beyond a single research team.

Budgets and award durations should accommodate the iterative process of bringing a proof-of-concept resource into a form that is sufficiently robust to become a broadly-adopted infrastructure resource. Proposals should be product-driven and typically will be assessed on their perceived contribution to a broad portfolio of national infrastructure capacity. PIs are encouraged to leverage NSF-supported scientific infrastructure, such as databases, data networks, computational resources, software, and centers. Proposals may include limited data collection, experimentation or other research activities as appropriate to design, evaluate, or calibrate the proposed infrastructure.

The three programmatic areas of the Capacity Program are described below. Please see links for further information in each area. PIs are encouraged to contact the program officers using the contact information above if they have questions about where to submit a proposal within this solicitation or if their proposed work cuts across one or more of these programmatic areas.

Cyberinfrastructure Programmatic Area: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=505538&org=DBI&from=home

The Cyberinfrastructure Programmatic Area supports the implementation of, scaling of, or major improvement to cyberinfrastructure for biology that advances or transforms contemporary biology and that is broadly applicable to a wide range of researchers.

Biological Collections Programmatic Area: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=505541

The Biological Collections Programmatic Area supports major improvements to or digitization of biological collections and collection-based information, enabling the advancement of biological understanding in important research areas, and increasing the broader applicability of collections.

Biological Field Stations and Marine Laboratories Programmatic Area : https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=5449&org=DBI

The Biological Field Stations and Marine Laboratories Programmatic Area supports major improvements to biological field stations or laboratories in any terrestrial, marine, estuarine, or freshwater environment for research and education.

Other proposal types

In addition to the regular research proposals sought under this solicitation, the programmatic areas support a variety of other Foundation-wide activities:

Research Coordination Networks (RCN), and Research at Undergraduate Institutions (RUI) proposals may be submitted at any time, to any of the clusters/programs described in this solicitation but must follow the proposal preparation guidance in those solicitations. PIs are strongly encouraged to contact the cognizant program officers to discuss the proposed activities before submission of an RCN proposal.

Grants for Rapid Response Research (RAPID), Early-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER), Research Advanced by Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering (RAISE), Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI), Planning proposals (see below), and proposals for Travel or Conferences support, including workshops, can be submitted at any time to any of the clusters/programs described in this solicitation. These types of proposals should be submitted in accordance with the guidance in the PAPPG. Conference and Travel proposals should be submitted at least 6 months before the start date of the conference or workshop; you are strongly advised to contact a Program Officer prior to submission. Note that before submitting Planning, RAPID, EAGER, or RAISE proposals you must receive approval from a Program Officer in the area of the proposal.

Planning proposals

Proposals for comprehensive planning to transform a resource (or a network of resources) in terms of its research and training mission. The effort should produce a strategic or other type of plan for advancing research (and education, if relevant) for at least a five-year time frame. Planning proposals may address, but are not limited to, research/training program development, infrastructure needs assessment, and research infrastructure coordination at regional (or broader) scales. Proposed activities will normally include meetings or travel for engaging research, educational (if relevant), or stakeholder communities. For planning activities to develop resources for biological research projects that may ultimately be more appropriate to other NSF programs, such as the Mid-scale Research Infrastructure program, please contact a Program Officer to determine whether such a project should be submitted as a planning proposal to this solicitation. Award of a planning grant does not imply an NSF commitment for support beyond the planning period.

Education Supplements

The Capacity program only considers support for full proposals submitted to the program. Except for Career-Life-Balance supplements, program funds are generally not used to provide post-award supplements to existing awards. If activities that align with REU, RET, and RAHSS educational supplements are planned, these activities should be described and budgeted for in the original proposal submission.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant or Cooperative Agreement

Estimated Number of Awards: 40 to 60

The number of awards may vary depending on the split of funds across the different programs, which in turn may vary according to submission distribution, individual proposal merits, proposed budget amounts, and availability of funds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $16,000,000 to $18,000,000

Approximately $16-18 million is expected to be available for new and continuing awards. The size and duration of any individual request should be justified by the amount and complexity of the work to be accomplished. As a rule, the larger the budget, the greater the expected impact on the biological research community.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of subawards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.

Non-profit, non-academic organizations: Independent museums, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies and similar organizations located in the U.S. that are directly associated with educational or research activities.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Not Applicable
