https://www.nsf.gov/policies/pappg

Title: Trans-Atlantic Platform (T-AP)
Synopsis: The Trans-Atlantic Platform for Social Sciences and Humanities (T-AP) is a collaboration between humanities and social science research funders from both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. T-AP aims to enhance the ability of funders, research organizations and researchers to engage in transnational dialogue and collaboration. T-AP works to identify common challenges and promotes a culture of collaboration in social science and humanities research by offering joint research calls in areas of strong potential for international collaboration. The platform facilitates the formation of networks within the social sciences and humanities and promotes interdisciplinarity. T-AP also strives to heighten awareness of the role the social sciences and humanities play in addressing 21st century challenges. 


Proposals requesting NSF funding must fit within the scientific purview of the NSF Directorate for Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences (SBE). Proposers are strongly encouraged to consult SBE’s programs and contact the T-AP program director to discuss their proposals’ fit within NSF/SBE’s purview prior to submission of the international team proposal to any T-AP call.  


International Team CompositionT-AP supports collaborative research teams from four continents: Africa (Republic of South Africa); Europe (Croatia, Finland, France, Germany, Poland, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom); North America (Canada, the United States); and South America (Brazil and Colombia).  Teams must include researchers based in at least three participating T-AP countries and must include partners from both sides of the Atlantic, i.e., from Europe/Africa and the Americas. Research partners will receive funding from their own national funding agencies for projects of up to 36 months in duration.  


Proposal Preparation and SubmissionThe Trans-Atlantic Platform will post a new call on the T-AP website on June 15, 2023. International team proposals must first be submitted via the SAGe system hosted by the São Paulo Research Foundation. The link to the SAGe system can be found on the T-AP website. The submission deadline is September 15, 2023. 


Following panel review and program officer deliberations, principal investigators (PIs) whose proposals have been recommended for funding through NSF will be invited to submit a copy of the original proposal, plus additional documents required for all NSF proposals, to Research.gov or Grants.gov.  


  


Invited full proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide proposal preparation guidelines apply.  Invited full proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply.
Program ID: 505909
NSF/PD Num: pd21188Y
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2021-03-31
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/t-ap-trans-atlantic-platform/pd21-188y
Type: Program
