https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/dcl-supplemental-funding-requests-support-k-12-artificial

Supplemental Funding Requests to Support K-12 Artificial Intelligence Teams for the Presidential AI Challenge through Community-based Partnerships


Dear Colleagues,

With this Dear Colleague Letter (DCL), the National Science Foundation (NSF) Directorate for STEM Education wishes to notify the community of its intention to support supplemental funding requests from the Principal Investigators (PIs) with current active NSF awards from the Directorate for STEM Education to support the Presidential Initiative on Advancing Artificial Intelligence Education for American Youth.

In response to the Presidential AI Challenge to ignite interest and develop foundational expertise in artificial intelligence (AI) among American youth, NSF aims to leverage funding from large PI communities and provide supplemental funding to support the development of hands-on and experiential learning opportunities, expand early access to high-quality AI learning opportunities, and prepare the future generations to succeed in a rapidly evolving, AI-enabled world. The goal is to support efforts, resources, and outreach for this Presidential AI Challenge widely through different organizations and regions across the nation.

This DCL is designed to provide supplemental funding for current Principal Investigators (PIs) of AI related projects to serve as Team Catalysts, forming and supporting teams to participate in the Presidential AI Challenge through targeted outreach, coordination, and mentorship. For each supplement, the requested amount is up to $25,000. We expect that approximately 100 multi-person teams will be supported to foster creativity, exploration, and innovation in AI learning across grade levels and communities.

Purpose
This DCL will support the creation of youth and/or educator teams who will identify real-world challenges and explore how AI can address these challenges and transform K–12 education. In alignment with the 2025 Executive Order on Advancing AI Education for American Youth, this DCL encourages student curiosity, educator innovation, and community engagement through hands-on, project-based, and experiential learning opportunities.

Funding Requests
Funding requests can include the following (as examples):

Challenge relevant equipment, supplies, and software
Educator or student stipends
Travel for challenge-related events including transportation and registration fees
Community events or project showcases
Mentorship or curriculum support
Each supplemental funding request should not exceed $25,000. The suggested length for the supplement proposal is 3-5 pages. Each request should include a plan for engaging regions or localities of the nation particularly in need of AI education resources for youth or educators. The funding request must follow the guidance for Supplemental Support specified in the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) Chapter VI.E.5.

All Submissions should also consider collaboratives with Schools, Industries, Nonprofits and Other Organizations

Applicants are encouraged to engage with partners from industries, nonprofits and other organizations to strength team learning experiences and project outcomes. Letters of collaboration from industry collaborators, community partners, school teams, are welcome but are not required. Potential contributions include:

Training, mentorship, and technical support
Access to data, tools, and/or platform
Problem definitions and real-world context
Career exploration opportunities
Participation in evaluation or showcase events
Submission and Review
The deadline for submission of supplemental funding requests is November 7, 2025. All supplemental funding requests will be reviewed in accordance with the NSF's merit review process. Interested parties are welcome to send questions or outlines of planned activities to the following email address: AI-Youth-Challenge@nsf.gov.

