https://www.nsf.gov/policies/pappg

Title: Mathematical Biology
Synopsis: The Mathematical Biology Program supports research in all areas of mathematical sciences with relevance to the biological sciences. Successful proposals must demonstrate mathematical innovation, biological relevance and significance, and strong integration between mathematics and biology.
Some projects of interest to the Mathematical Biology Program may include development of mathematical theories, methodologies, and tools traditionally seen in other disciplinary programs within the Division of Mathematical Sciences. In general, if a proposal is appropriate for review by more than one NSF program, it is advisable to contact the program officers handling each program to determine when and where the proposal should be submitted and to facilitate the review process.
The Mathematical Biology Program regularly seeks joint reviews of proposals with programs in the Directorates of Biological Sciences and other relevant programs. Investigators are encouraged to discuss their project with program officers in relevant areas to determine whether it could be considered by more than one program.
Research in Undergraduate Institutions (RUI)
Investigators submitting an RUI proposal should read the RUI solicitation (link below), as the rules for proposal format may deviate from the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG).
EAGER and RAPID Proposals
Prior to submitting proposals for EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER) or Rapid Response Research (RAPID), Investigators must contact the cognizant program directors.
Requests for Award Supplements
Principal Investigators are encouraged to contact the cognizant program director prior to submission of a proposal for an award supplement. See the PAPPG for more information.
Conferences
Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation, "Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences," (link below) to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities.
To facilitate timely notification of the availability of support:

proposals for conferences, workshops, etc., to be held in the US must be submitted 8 months in advance of the conference date;
proposals to support group travel to meetings outside the US must be submitted 12 months in advance of the meeting date.
Award Type: standard, continuing
Next due date (Y-m-d): 2026-10-14, 2026-10-14
Program ID: 5690
NSF/PD Num: pd227334
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2022-07-10
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/mathematical-biology/pd22-7334
Type: Program
