https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/ate-advanced-technological-education/nsf24-584/solicitation

Title: Advanced Technological Education (ATE)
Synopsis: With a focus on two-year Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs), the Advanced Technological Education (ATE) program supports the education of technicians for the high-technology fields that drive our nation's economy. The program involves partnerships between academic institutions (grades 7-12, IHEs), industry, and economic development agencies to promote improvement in the education of science and engineering technicians. It is strongly recommended that projects be faculty-led and required that courses and programs are credit-bearing, although materials developed may also be used for incumbent worker education. Materials may also be adapted and implemented as credit-bearing courses. The ATE program supports curriculum development; professional development of college faculty and secondary school teachers; career pathway development for both students and incumbent workers; and other activities including applied research projects that advance the knowledge base related to technician education.
The ATE program encourages partnerships with other entities that may impact technician education. For example, with

the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Manufacturing Extension Partnerships (MEPs) (http://www.nist.gov/mep/index.cfm) as applicable to support technician education programs and the industries they serve; and
Manufacturing USA Institutes (https://manufacturing.gov/) addressing workforce development issues.

The ATE program encourages proposals from Minority Serving Institutions as well as other institutions that support the recruitment, retention, and completion (certificate, degree, program) of the full spectrum of diverse talent that society has to offer, which includes underrepresented and underserved communities, in STEM technician education programs that award associate degrees.
Award Type: standard, continuing
Next due date (Y-m-d): 2026-10-01, 2026-10-01
Program ID: 5464
NSF/PD Num: nsf24584
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2024-06-21
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/ate-advanced-technological-education/nsf24-584
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Advanced Technological Education (ATE)

I. Introduction

The Advanced Technological Education (ATE) program supports the education of the skilled technical workforce at the undergraduate and secondary school levels. The skilled technical workforce has been defined as individuals who use a high level of science and engineering skills in their jobs but do not hold a baccalaureate degree. Proposals to the program may aim to affect specialized technology courses or core science, mathematics, and technology courses that serve as immediate prerequisites or co-requisites for specialized technician education courses/programs. The curricular focus and the activities of all projects should demonstrably contribute to the ATE program's central goals: producing more qualified science and engineering technicians to meet workforce demands, and improving the technical skills and the general science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) preparation of these technicians and the educators who prepare them. It is required that courses developed or updated be credit-bearing courses with the potential to contribute to or result in an academic credential. Institutions may also make use of their non-credit bearing offerings if they can demonstrate increased opportunities to engage incumbent workers and convert these offerings to academic credit.

The ATE program focuses on IHEs that award two-year degrees in advanced technology fields and requires these IHEs and their faculty to have significant leadership roles on all projects. It is recommended that two-year IHEs serve as the fiscal lead on proposals with four-year IHEs being sub-awardees. When a four-year IHE submits as the fiscal lead, then two-year IHE faculty must be PI or Co-PIs. Effective technological education programs should involve partnerships in which two-year IHEs work with four-year IHEs, secondary schools, business, industry, economic development agencies, and government. The partnerships and collaborations should respond to employers' hiring needs for highly skilled technicians with the ability to learn and embrace change. Projects that focus on secondary school teachers and students must demonstrate a clear pathway to a two-year technician education program. When a secondary institution or school district develops a proposal, community college faculty must be PI or Co-PIs, and the results are expected to impact both the secondary career and technical education (CTE) program and the two-year technician education program.

Fields of technology supported by the ATE program include, but are not limited to, advanced manufacturing technologies, agricultural and bio- technologies, energy and environmental technologies, engineering technologies, information technologies, micro- and nano-technologies, security technologies, geospatial technologies, autonomous technologies, as well as applied research on technician education that informs all supported areas. It is expected that emerging areas such as artificial intelligence (AI) and quantum information sciences will be supported as industry defines their needs for skilled technical workers in these areas. The ATE program is interested in projects addressing issues in: 1) rural technician education; 2) projects that broaden the participation of the full spectrum of diverse talent that society has to offer in the entry-level technical workforce including strategies to recruit veterans into technician education programs; 3) projects that focus on recruiting, retaining and completing students with disabilities into STEM technician education programs; and 4) projects that support emerging industry needs for skilled technical workers, for example, industry needs for technicians with AI knowledge and skills. The ATE program does not support projects that focus on students who will become health, veterinary, or medical technicians.

Projects must have an institutional impact, make a case that graduates with these skills will have a measurable impact on the local workforce, and have the potential to impact technician education regionally and/or nationally. All projects must be guided by a coherent vision of technological education--a vision that recognizes technicians as life-long learners who can respond to the needs of the modern workplace and possess employability skills such as critical thinking and problem-solving skills. The articulation of educational programs across different levels (e.g. secondary to two-year to four-year degree programs) can help learners continue to update skills over time in response to the demands of the workplace. All ATE proposals are expected to communicate a realistic vision and an achievable plan for sustainability. Being sustainable means that a project, consortia, or center has developed a product or service that the host institution, its partners, and its target audiences want to see continued and will dedicate effort and resources to support sustainability.

To be sustainable is to ensure products and services have a life beyond ATE funding. Evidence of potential sustainability includes, for example:

The institution commits to maintaining positions for faculty/personnel hired by the project;

The institution or partners agree to supply resources to support parts of the project after the NSF award ends, and/or seeks other sources o funding;

The institution commits to continuing to maintain, improve and disseminate resources developed by the project.

The almost 2,300 ATE projects and centers supported to date provide a base upon which future ATE projects should build. Information about these projects can be found on the NSF web site using the ATE program element code of 7412 in the awards search function ( https://www.nsf.gov ). ATE Central ( https://atecentral.net ) directs users to a full range of high-impact ATE resources available online, including curricula, learning objects, podcasts, and the ATE Impacts Book, as well as providing a variety of information about funded ATE projects and centers. The South Carolina Advanced Technological Education (SCATE) Center is the fiscal lead on the Mentor Connect project and hosts an informative website ( https://mentor-connect.org ). The Advanced Technological Education TV project (ATETV) is another resource on technician education ( https://www.atetv.org ). The EvaluATE Resource Hub at Western Michigan University partners with ATE projects, consortia, and centers to expand their use of exemplary evaluation practices, strengthen the knowledge base of the ATE program about evaluation and support the continuous improvement of technician education throughout the nation ( https://www.evalu-ate.org ). Annual survey results may also be found at the EvaluATE site. The ATE program has also supported several studies by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, and these may be found on the Academies website ( https://nap.nationalacademies.org . The studies include "Community Colleges in the Evolving STEM Education Landscape", "Engineering Technology Education in the United States", and "Building America's Skilled Technical Workforce".

II. Program Description

A. PROGRAM TRACKS

The ATE program supports proposals in four major tracks:

Track 1: Small Scale Projects

Track 2: Projects

Track 3: Consortia for Innovations in Technician Education

Track 4: Centers

Proposals in all tracks should demonstrate a thorough awareness of previous relevant ATE grants, research on effective technician education, and contemporary developments in the relevant field(s) of technology. Whenever feasible, projects should utilize and innovatively build upon successful educational materials, courses, curricula, strategies, and methods that have been developed through other ATE grants, as well as other exemplary resources (including those not supported by NSF) that can be adapted to technological education. Proposers should contact the Principal Investigators (PIs) of previously funded projects and centers to explore the possibilities for adapting materials, evaluating materials, receiving guidance, or collaborating in other ways, such as conducting research projects that focus on the effectiveness of technician education.

Prospective PIs are encouraged to do a thorough literature search for funded projects related to their ideas. If such projects can inform the PI, he/she is encouraged to adapt and implement materials and/or strategies rather than re-developing materials. A successful proposal will provide evidence that innovative materials and practices have been effective at other named institutions, provide realistic implementation plans, and explain why the materials and practices are anticipated to be effective for the students in a new setting. The project scope may range from improvements in an individual course or laboratory to a more comprehensive effort that impacts entire curricula or programs.

All proposals may request instrumentation for student use in gaining skills and competencies (see Other Budgetary Limitations section).

For all Tracks, proposals may focus on one or more of the areas described below. Multifaceted projects that cut across areas are encouraged.

All projects are expected to stimulate innovation in technician education as well as contribute to expanding the base of two-year IHEs participating in the program. The ATE program is particularly interested in projects addressing issues in rural technician education.

Program Development and Improvement : These projects should align technician education with modern practices and assure an increased number of students with an enhanced STEM theoretical understanding and technical skills and competencies enter the high-performance workplace.

Proposed activities should produce a coherent sequence of classes, laboratories, and work-based educational experiences to produce a compelling learning environment for students preparing to be science and engineering technicians. Employers must be committed partners with defined project roles and responsibilities as detailed in letters of commitment, and the resulting program should constitute a model that could be disseminated broadly. The program should lead students to an appropriate associate degree, specific occupational competency or certification; provide business, industry and public sector agencies with a larger pool of skilled technicians; and support student recruitment, retention, and completion of programs. The PI should articulate clear project goals and objectives, and evaluative activities should be tied to the goals, objectives, and activities. It is expected that data on student completion and initial job placement will be gathered and reported on. Programs for the development of baccalaureate degree programs or that focus solely on pathways to baccalaureate degrees are not eligible.

A program development and improvement proposal might include:

Developing new resources or courses that add rigorous STEM content and industry-relevant skills to technician education programs;

Developing innovative methods for using laboratory-, field- and work-based experiences to improve students' understanding of basic principles and the high-performance workplace;

Utilizing modern instrumentation and new technologies to address the knowledge, skills, and competencies needed for the evolving, converging, and emerging workplace;

Integrating industry standards and workplace competencies into the curriculum including employability skills ( https://cte.ed.gov/initiatives/employability-skills-framework ), critical thinking, and problem-solving skills;

Implementing strategies to support student recruitment, retention, and program completion;

Developing life-long career and educational pathways for technicians to support the changing workplace, including developing or improving articulation between programs at secondary schools and two-year IHEs, or between two-year to four-year IHEs degree programs;

Providing industry internships, apprenticeships, and/or undergraduate research experiences including course-based undergraduate research experiences (CUREs) that build both technical skills and competencies and employability skills; and

Acquiring instrumentation and developing curricular modifications to support existing programs that have been determined, in partnership with industry, to be critical for enhancing workforce readiness. Industry partner(s) must provide a letter describing how the changing workplace needs require the new instrumentation and their role in curricular revisions.

Curriculum and Educational Materials Development : A project may focus on curriculum and materials development with the intent of broadly disseminating the developed products. Proposed project activities should affect the learning environment, course content, and experience of instruction for students preparing to be science and engineering technicians and for their faculty. Projects may develop new print, electronic, and multimedia resources, including simulations, scenarios, and web-based collections as well as laboratory experiments and manuals. It is expected that products will be developed with input from business, industry, and government, validated by experts from these organizations, field tested in diverse locations, and validated in terms of their effectiveness in meeting learning goals. A project may also be designed to adapt non-credit bearing courses/modules/ to credit-bearing courses/modules (e.g. stackable credentials in a credit-bearing program).

Professional Development for Educators : ATE supports projects that provide current secondary school teachers and IHE faculty with opportunities for continued professional growth in areas that directly impact technician education. These projects should be designed to enhance the educators' disciplinary capabilities, teaching skills, understanding of current technologies, practices, and employability skills. Activities typically include workshops/meetings, intensive seminars, industry internships, or a combination of these. Such activities typically last from a few days to several weeks and are usually conducted in the summer, with follow-on activities conducted during the academic year. To effect long-term change, workshop/meeting participants should demonstrate institutional support. The program particularly encourages activities that involve secondary school teachers and two-year IHE faculty working together.

Additionally, the program encourages activities that provide pedagogical skills to industry scientists and skilled tradespeople who wish to teach. Project personnel should communicate desired learning outcomes to the project evaluator, and evaluation activities should demonstrate attainment of learning outcomes as well as use in the classrooms and sustainable changes in the practice of participating faculty and teachers. Changes in student learning outcomes as well as students' perceptions of technical careers should be assessed, and the data shared in annual and final reports. As with all ATE projects, two-year faculty are required to be in leadership roles, and it is expected that all professional development activities include business and industry partners to assure that the faculty and teacher training is relevant and aligned with workforce needs.

Leadership Capacity Building for Faculty : The vitality and growth of the ATE community is closely linked to industry trends and needs as well as the acumen of the PIs and their institutions. As such, faculty must: 1) work with their institutional administration; 2) effectively manage both programs and project/center activities; 3) maintain industry connections that include local, statewide, and national economic development efforts; and 4) maintain and cultivate networks with other recipients across funding agencies. Activities that foster these skills might include:

Mentoring programs that link experienced ATE PIs with new recipients. Activities are expected to lead to new PIs acquiring the skills needed to successfully manage, complete, evaluate, disseminate and sustain their projects as well as fostering leadership skills such that they may become mentors at a future time;

Identifying and mentoring faculty and their administrators for the purpose of developing and implementing a new curriculum in an advanced technological area to educate technicians for local industry needs; and

Developing and implementing outreach activities that impact faculty and their institutions educating them about the value and potential impact of working with the ATE Program and its community. These efforts could include providing information on funding opportunities, developing effective proposal writing skills, providing guidance on ways of surveying area industry to determine industry needs as well as finding and working with local workforce investment boards and other entities.

Teacher Preparation: The foundation for advanced technological education is grounded in strong STEM education in K-12 schools. The preparation of future STEM and career and technical education (CTE) teachers who will facilitate student learning in mathematics and science and cultivate an interest in technological careers is an important component of educating the skilled technical workforce. ATE teacher preparation projects help prepare a future teaching workforce that is skilled in teaching science and mathematics, understands the technological workplace, and can prepare students to use a variety of approaches to solve real-world technology-related problems using design processes and principles (See Standards for Technological Literacy, International Technology and Engineering Educators Association).

Teacher Preparation projects must involve both two-year and four-year institutions unless the two-year institution offers a four-year baccalaureate program in teacher preparation. Other partners include industry and relevant associations to inform the program about the changing technological workplace. Projects should aim to increase the number, quality, and participation of the full spectrum of diverse talent that society has to offer, of prospective STEM and/or CTE teachers in pre-service or paraprofessional programs. These projects are expected to improve prospective teachers' technological understanding, provide them with experiences to use in engaging students in real world technological problems, improve their understanding of the modern workplace, and strengthen their preparation in science and mathematics. These projects are expected to build on the extensive research literature on teacher preparation. Two-year IHEs have the unique advantage of having technology faculty connected with the high-performance workplace who can work with mathematics and science faculty in developing and serving as faculty for these programs.

Entrepreneurial Skills Development for Students: In addition to technical skills and disciplinary content, students entering the advanced technological industries environment need skills that allow them to work effectively in industry. Many companies have a global presence, and students need to understand that the global economy affects them as employees. Another sector of industry is composed of small start-up companies, and these have different attributes than large established firms. Students need to understand the attributes of their employers to be effective employees.

Employers often expect employees to possess knowledge, skills and competencies in a specific technical area and to demonstrate professional, industry- related and entrepreneurship acumen. Entrepreneurship skills can be developed in students enrolled in technician education programs by engaging students in problem-based learning using projects of interest to local industry, working with local economic investment organizations, and developing incubator programs that provide students with experiences interacting with entrepreneurs. Projects are encouraged that:

Prepare traditional students and returning learners to develop and apply technical, professional, industry-related, and entrepreneurship knowledge, skills, and competencies within the context of a technician education program;

Incorporate global issues and international technological practices into technician education programs; and

Introduce students to business plans, marketing strategies, networking and interviewing skills, and characteristics of successful entrepreneurs within the context of the technician education program.

Applied Research on Technician Education

Proposals are expected to investigate issues related to the education and preparation of skilled technical workers.

Proposals are particularly encouraged that address industry certifications or credentialing; issues such as recruitment, retention and attainment of degrees and credentials; and emerging careers and pathways. Proposals must include meaningful partnerships among faculty at two-year and four-year IHEs, and industry when appropriate. All projects must demonstrate their alignment with the goals of the ATE program and contribute to the knowledge base on technician education.

Investigators who are interested in conducting an applied research project are strongly encouraged to discuss their plans with an ATE program officer prior to submission.

Track 1: Small Scale Projects

This track supports projects that are smaller in scale and may be of shorter duration than Track 2 Projects. It is recommended that institutions and/or PIs with limited prior experience in the ATE program use this track as an entry point into the program. Projects in this category may also serve as prototypes or pilots for an idea that may be expanded in a future ATE proposal.

Track 2. ATE PROJECTS

This track supports a diversity of project areas focused on improving the education of the skilled technical workforce, and these projects are usually larger in scope than those proposed under Track 1.

Track 3: Consortia for Innovations in Technician Education

This track supports collaborations to strengthen partnerships between two-year IHEs and industry to be responsive to industry needs and regional economic development. A consortium must address either a specific industry area or address a challenge where the convergence of technologies is changing the skills and competencies needed by the skilled technical worker. PIs are expected to collaborate with relevant ATE Center(s), ATE Resource Centers, and projects focused on the same technological area(s). Consortium PIs must not hold a leadership role in an active ATE Center. The proposal must include a section that identifies specific activities that require collaboration with Center(s) and projects and how the consortium intends to leverage and build upon existing resources and networks. In the project description this section should be labeled: Consortia Connections to ATE Center(s) and Projects. Consortia projects must be led by a two-year IHE and require the expertise of one or two other two-year IHEs. Proposals are expected to detail the unique contributions of each partner to the consortium.

Some examples of possible Consortia focal points include:

Several two-year IHEs with programs supporting the automotive industry as it shifts to alternative fuels and electric vehicles might form consortia to respond to changing industry needs for technicians;

The integration of cybersecurity into advanced manufacturing (or any other advanced technological industry) might bring together two-year IHEs that separately support programs in cybersecurity and advanced manufacturing to develop appropriate materials across the converging areas;

Renewable energy programs might form consortia with building technologies programs and environmental programs; and

The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) into advanced manufacturing programs (or any other advanced technological industry) might bring together two-year IHEs that separately support programs in AI and advanced manufacturing to develop appropriate materials across these converging areas.

Track 4: ATE CENTERS

The ATE program recognizes the need to develop an integrated approach to technician education that will define and disseminate the critical knowledge and skills required to support the advanced technology industries in the US. To facilitate this integrated approach, the ATE program will support a center in each of the following areas: Advanced Manufacturing Technologies, Agricultural Technologies, Autonomous Technologies, Biotechnology, Energy Technologies, Environmental Technologies, Engineering Technologies, Information Technologies, Security Technologies, and Micro- and Nano-Technologies. Proposals may be considered for an emerging advanced technology field that is not included in the previous list, if that field has a high potential for career opportunities for two-year IHE graduates (e.g., AI, Quantum Information Sciences).

Strategies for Developing an ATE Center Proposal

Center Proposal : Two-year IHEs contemplating a proposal for a Center are strongly encouraged to make early contact with one of the ATE Lead Program Directors to discuss their ideas.

ATE Centers will be led by experienced leaders in the proposed field or technology. This may include a record of teaching and faculty professional development in the disciplinary area and/or prior work in the industry. Center PIs are expected to demonstrate prior successful completion of ATE projects. Center proposals must build upon prior efforts of both project personnel and others in the field.

Current active centers are encouraged to work together with a new prospective PI and institution to prepare a proposal for a given technical field.

Expected Outcomes of ATE Centers

To advance the ATE program's mission of educating the skilled technical workforce, ATE Centers will:

Support systemic reform, broad outreach, community-building, and leadership development among educational institutions, industry, professional and trade associations, educators, and incumbent technicians;

Establish an effective dialogue and collaborations between existing and new ATE projects in the same or related technological fields across the nation;

Provide models and leadership for collaborations in which two-year IHEs work with four-year IHEs, secondary schools, business, industry, economic development agencies, and government;

Mentor prospective PIs to broaden the impact of ATE;

Promote technician careers and visibility and the public image in the field(s) on which the Center is focused;

Address technician knowledge, skills, and competencies needed for the evolving, converging, and emerging technical workplace;

Provide faculty professional development opportunities within their area of expertise; and

Develop a realistic plan for achieving sustainability and institutionalization of successful center functions following the period of NSF funding.

After an initial five years, an ATE Center that continues to meet the ATE program requirements may request support for an additional five year period. Renewal proposals must document clear results and impacts of prior support. Additionally, new goals and activities informed by the results of the evaluation of the prior project should be detailed along with a plan for sustainability. Renewal proposals will compete with other center proposals in the same technological area.

Proposals for Centers must clearly articulate a national vision of technological education in the specific field and describe a workable plan for achieving that vision during the period of NSF funding. Proposals must describe the expected impacts of the proposed ATE Center on industry, technician education programs at the national, regional, and local levels, and institutions. The evaluation plan for a Center should describe strategies for measuring impacts on institutions, faculty, students, and industry, and the Center's success in coordinating with ATE projects and other stakeholders.

Information about the internal and external resources that will be made available to the project should be described in the Facilities, Equipment, and Other Resources section of the proposal. It is expected that, during the first five-year award, an ATE Center will seek a variety of additional funding sources to support sustainability. The success of these sustainability efforts, as well as the description of a sustainability plan, will be critically reviewed for renewal of funding.

Proposals for ATE Centers must include a letter from the president or chief academic officer of the host institution documenting the institution's commitment to the center.

Logistical Information

The "Center" proposal type should be selected in Research.gov or Grants.gov.

Deadlines

The staggered dates for specific areas of technology (below) reflect the submission dates for ATE Center proposals.

Proposal Deadline

Area of Technology (for ATE Center Proposals)

(follow published solicitation deadline dates)

October 2024 (for funding in 2025)

Engineering Technologies

Micro- and Nanotechnologies

Agricultural Technologies

October 2025 (for funding in 2026)

Advanced Manufacturing

Environmental Technologies

Security Technologies

October 2026 (for funding in 2027)

Energy Technologies

October 2027 (for funding in 2028)

Information Technologies

October 2028 (for funding in 2029)

Biotechnology

Emerging Advanced Technological Area

ATE Center proposals submitted outside the specified deadlines and topical areas above will be returned without review.

If an ATE Center is not funded in a specified area of technology during the year in which proposals are accepted, proposals in that area will again be accepted in the subsequent years until one is funded. Proposals for an ATE Center for a "new emerging area of technology" will be evaluated by NSF staff and external reviewers for appropriateness as a new topical area for an ATE Center. Prospective investigators with an idea for an emerging area are required to contact an ATE Program Officer before submitting a proposal.

Conferences and Meetings: In addition to the tracks described above, the ATE program supports a small number of conferences, meetings, and special projects that lead to a better understanding of issues in advanced technological education. These efforts must be related to the mission of the ATE program. Discussion with a program officer is strongly encouraged prior to submitting a proposal, and these proposals may be submitted outside of the regular submission dates for the program, but the proposers should plan on at least a 10-month lead time to allow for review and processing of the proposal.

Budgets for conferences and meetings are expected to be consistent with the duration of the event, and the number of participants, but the cost will normally not exceed a total of $250,000. It is expected that conferences and meetings will be outcome-based, and the final report will contain a statement of the impacts of the event. Proceedings of the conference are expected to be published and widely disseminated. The "Conference" proposal type should be selected in Research.gov or Grants.gov. Additional information about the preparation of conference proposals is available in Chapter II of the PAPPG.

B. INFORMATION ABOUT PREVIOUS AWARDS

NSF's web site ( https://www.nsf.gov ) provides an Awards Search feature that allows customized searches of NSF's award database. Proposers are also encouraged to search https://atecentral.net and contact PIs of previous awards.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 45 to 80

NSF anticipates that approximately $74.0 million will be available for new and continuing awards in this program in FY2025. In FY 2025, the ATE program expects to fund new awards totaling $69,000,000 million.

Funding in all years is subject to the availability of funds. The program expects to make 45-80 new awards per year. Grants may be awarded in a wide variety of sizes and durations, as summarized below. The categories below are expected to encompass most of the activities supported through the ATE program; however, additional activities may be proposed after consultation with an ATE program officer under the heading of a special project. These activities would inform the education of the skilled technical workforce (STW).The actual number of awards and the award sizes are subject to the availability of funds and the quality of proposals received.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $74,000,000

It is anticipated that this funding amount will be available for new and continuing awards in this program in FY2025. Funding in all years is subject to the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of subawards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.

Non-profit, non-academic organizations: Independent museums, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies and similar organizations located in the U.S. that are directly associated with educational or research activities.

For-profit organizations: U.S.-based commercial organizations, including small businesses, with strong capabilities in scientific or engineering research or education and a passion for innovation.

State and Local Governments

Tribal Nations: An American Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges as a federally recognized tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. §§ 5130-5131.

Who May Serve as PI:

The ATE program focuses on IHEs that award two-year degrees in advanced technology fields and requires these IHEs and their faculty to have significant leadership roles on all projects. When a four-year IHE or other types of organizations submit as the fiscal lead, then two-year IHE faculty must be identified as Co-PIs. When a secondary institution or school district develops a proposal, community college faculty must be identified as Co-PIs.

Consortium (Track-3) PIs must not hold a leadership role in an active ATE Center.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposals: Not applicable.

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.
