https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/future-core-computer-information-science-engineering-future-computing/nsf25-543/solicitation

Title: Computer Systems Research (CSR)
Synopsis: Computer systems support a broad range of applications and technologies that seamlessly integrate into a cohesive, intelligent computational ecosystem driving scientific progress, economic prosperity, and national security. Revolutionary computing capabilities underpin the emergence and dramatic growth in areas such as intelligent systems, biotechnology (e.g., drug discovery, genomics, and personalized medicine), data science and analytics, smart homes and transportation, advanced manufacturing, quantum computing, and virtual/augmented reality. The challenge ahead is envisioning new approaches, as well as combining existing and emerging technologies, to create the future computer systems enabling continued transformational growth. Such computer systems will require new, innovative, and visionary holistic approaches to integrating hardware and software systems, comprised of classical and quantum computing elements, networking and communications, and memory and storage components, into computer systems spanning from the largest hyperscaled systems and supercomputers to ubiquitous IoT and smart devices embedded everywhere. The scope of the Computer Systems Research (CSR) program includes the integrated hardware and software of classical computing systems, quantum computing systems, embedded and constrained computing systems, as well as other computing systems such as analog, asynchronous, or neuromorphic systems.
Classical Computing Systems
Over the past 75 years, computing systems based on the classical, von Neumann architecture have transformed all aspects of society, fueling tremendous research and development breakthroughs, revolutionizing productivity throughout the economy, and enabling technological superiority in the national defense. Next-generation computer systems must tackle grander challenges, support wider deployments and exponential growth in data and processing requirements. These systems will need to be reliable in the presence of unreliable components, networking, and configurations, adaptive to changing environments and usage scenarios, attentive to unintended consequences of their operations, capable of supporting high-throughput applications and large-scale data storage and processing, maintain privacy and security, and able to meet performance and energy objectives for applications ranging from very low-power embedded systems to large high-performance computing systems. In addition to hardware improvements, the computer systems software stack must continue to provide the programming languages and models, compilers, libraries, middleware, and application interfaces needed for developers along with the operating and runtime systems, virtualization, resource management, and orchestration support required to support the full range of deployed computer systems. Moreover, the networking and interconnection technologies employed for integrated and distributed computing systems continue rapid technological change that demands judicious approaches to creating balanced, performant systems. Similarly, memory hierarchy and storage systems must support disparate requirements for temporary and persistent storage at scales ranging from a handful of bytes to internet-scale data training sets. Holistically integrating and balancing these aspects of computer systems remains a tremendously exciting research endeavor with critical impact on computing capabilities. Consequently, the CSR program seeks innovative research proposals that will significantly advance the reliability, performance, power, energy-efficiency, security and privacy, scalability, and sustainability of computer systems.
Quantum Computing Systems
Quantum computing has advanced rapidly to play a prominent role in potentially solving complex problems that have been beyond the ability of classical computing systems. Quantum computing systems of the future will increasingly be heterogeneous and distributed, spanning quantum-enabled, Post-Moore models and architectures, integrated classical and quantum processors as well as NISQ (Noisy Intermediate Scale Quantum) and post NISQ architectures. Such systems will require new, innovative, and visionary approaches to quantum computing hardware, quantum communication, heterogenous traditional and quantum system software and middleware, and consideration of human-computer interactions that are limited only by the imagination. These systems will need to be resilient to high qubit error rates and low decoherence times, adaptive to changing environments and usage scenarios, and able to meet the performance and energy objectives of applications such as quantum AI and machine learning, biotechnology, quantum and post-quantum cryptography, financial modeling and optimization, and many more. Computer systems support bridging the gap between applications and hardware in the form of operating system and runtime systems to manage and coordinate quantum hardware resources (e.g., qubit entanglement and magic states), execute error correcting kernels, manage quantum memory, and facilitate the execution of quantum algorithms is critical in realizing this potential. 
Embedded and Resource-Constrained Systems
Tremendous advancements have been made in IoT (Internet of Things) and edge computing technologies over the past decade. The challenge ahead is to develop software and sensing systems of the future, with humans in the loop, encompassing distributed, embedded, and resource-constrained devices that will span biotechnology, intelligent wearable computing, the Internet of Things (IoT), Augmented Reality/Virtual Reality (AR/VR), smart environments, intelligent transportation systems, personalized healthcare, data intensive and distributed systems, energy-efficient and sustainable computing, emerging workloads, digital twins, etc. These systems will need to be reliable and trustworthy, incorporate cutting-edge AI techniques and services, maintain privacy and security, adaptive to dynamically varying computing and communication environments as well usage scenarios, capable of supporting high-throughput applications, and able to meet performance and energy objectives. Clean-slate approaches considering security, privacy and energy-efficiency by design are particularly welcome.
Other Compute Architectures
Although digital computers typically employ the von Neumann computing paradigm, other approaches could be promising for next generation computing systems, including asynchronous or analog systems as well as neuromorphic, reconfigurable, dataflow, or other structures offering significant improvements. The incorporation of these approaches into the holistic computer systems ecosystem including processing, memory hierarchy and storage, interconnections and networking components, as well as with the software stack, presents research challenges and opportunities. Similarly, as new memory technologies mature, including volatile and non-volatile memories using semiconductors, neuromorphic, photonic, DNA, or quantum approaches, their effective integration into the computer systems ecosystem raises important research questions. Research proposals that address the impact of such technologies to computer systems are of interest, particularly creative, clean-slate approaches. 
 Areas of Research Interest
The CSR program seeks innovative research proposals that will advance

the reliability, scalability, performance, power and energy-efficiency, security and privacy, scalability, and sustainability of quantum and classical computer systems;
the infrastructure, software, and tools necessary to develop, manage, and execute algorithms on quantum or classical hardware, including operating systems, runtime systems, programming languages, simulators, and hardware interfaces specifically designed for quantum or classical computing;
the infrastructure, software, and tools necessary to develop, manage, and execute the next generation of end-to-end AI systems and services as well as biotech applications, including holistic system designs encompassing sensing, learning, problem solving, perception, and prediction, as well as specialized hardware and software handling large datasets, automating workflows, and meeting regulatory compliance;
seamless, transparent, and efficient parallel and distributed computation across classical and quantum computing systems, including scaling up from small embedded systems to supercomputers as well as scaling out from single computational nodes to highly parallel and distributed systems of many computational elements; and
end-to-end storage and computing platforms encompassing edge and/or cloud to support the next generation of intelligent IoT applications and services, incorporating distributed, multi-modal sensing, real or near real-time processing, cutting-edge AI/intelligence technologies, data analytics and decision making, and security and privacy that will lead to innovative findings across research areas such as biotechnology, smart manufacturing, smart homes and transportation, and virtual/augmented reality.

In general, a research project focusing on computer system design, development, evaluation and/or deployment will be within the scope of the CSR program. However, research projects that focus on specific point solutions or specific application design and development or generic application development that does not leverage or advance systems architecture or the software stack may not be within its scope. Some examples of projects that are out of scope for the CSR program are projects focusing on: strengthening the security, privacy or usability of an existing computer system or system architecture; developing novel machine learning algorithms for a specific workload that will run on computer systems; applying machine learning or other scientific methods to solve a problem using computer systems as an evaluation platform; developing new algorithms that leverage the unique properties of quantum computers to solve a problem efficiently; or sensing technologies and cyber-physical systems with a closed control loop (making decisions based on sensing information, without human/computer systems in the loop). 
Note: Some projects might be appropriate for joint consideration by CSR and other programs across CISE and may be submitted for joint review.  It is advisable to put the additional programs in the title (for example, CSR: NeTS: ...).
Program ID: 503306
NSF/PD Num: nsf25543
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2008-09-23
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/csr-computer-systems-research/103515
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE): Future Computing Research (Future CoRe)

I. Introduction

The NSF Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) supports transformative research and education projects that develop new knowledge in all aspects of computing, communications, and information science and engineering through multiple research programs. These programs support research and education activities that advance:

mathematical, scientific and technological foundations of computing communication, hardware, software and emerging technologies;

understanding and development of computer and network systems, cyber-physical systems, and cybersecurity as well as their roles in solving complex scientific, engineering, and societal problems; and

understanding of the inter-related roles of people, computers, and information.

II. Program Description

This solicitation covers submission to the following Future CoRe programs. Research that fits within a single program and interdisciplinary research that spans more than one of these programs are welcome.

Please see the individual program webpages below for more information on what is within scope for these Future CoRe programs:

Algorithmic Foundations (AF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports potentially transformative projects in the theory of algorithms and computational complexity, characterized by algorithmic innovation and rigorous analysis;

Communications and Information Foundations (CIF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research that addresses the theoretical underpinnings of information acquisition, transmission, and processing in communications and information processing systems;

Computer Systems Research (CSR) program [ Program Webpage ] supports the advancement and holistic design and development of integrated software and hardware computing systems, including classical and quantum elements, to enable an integrated, cohesive, intelligent computational ecosystem;

Computing Education Research (CER) program [ Program Webpage ] supports transformative projects that inform our understanding of the effective teaching and learning of computing skills and concepts at all levels to contribute to the development of, and pathways toward a robust workforce well prepared for careers in CISE fields;

Cyber-Physical Systems Foundations and Connected Communities (CPS) program [ Program Webpage ] supports convergent research on intelligent, engineered systems, built from the seamless integration of computation with physical components within natural and built environments. The program seeks foundational and translational advances in all areas of cyber-physical systems, including artificial intelligence for cyber-physical systems, and encourages multidisciplinary socio-technical innovation, transforming the way people, technologies, and the environment interact in communities;

Foundations of Emerging Technologies (FET) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research at the intersection of computing and biological systems, nanoscale science and engineering, quantum information science, and other promising disruptive technologies supporting novel computing/communication models;

Human-Centered Computing (HCC) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research in human-computer interaction, integrating across fields including computing, information, social and behavioral sciences, to (re)design technologies that amplify human capabilities, and understand how human, technical, and contextual aspects of computing and communication systems shape their benefits, effects, and risks;

Information Integration and Informatics (III) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research on computational approaches to the full data lifecycle to maximize the utility of information resources;

Networking Technology and Systems (NeTS) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research that advances intelligent communication network systems, including wired, wireless, Internet, internet of things, quantum, bio-inspired, nano, and other networks, as well as networks that span multiple domains and scales like space-air-ground integrated networks, while exploring their fundamental understanding, properties and trade-offs, and developing innovative tools and techniques, including artificial intelligence (AI), for designing, building, measuring and managing future communication network systems and services;

Robust Intelligence (RI) program [ Program Webpage ] supports computational research to understand and enable intelligent systems in complex, realistic contexts; and

Software and Hardware Foundations (SHF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research in the design, verification, operation, utilization and evaluation of computer hardware and software through novel approaches, robust theories, high-leverage tools, and lasting principles.

The CISE Future Computing Research program anticipates a portfolio of awards with a range of budgets and durations, including projects of smaller scope. Project durations and budgets must be commensurate with the scope of the proposed work up to the maximum limit of $1,000,000 with the duration up to 4 years. Typical projects are approximately $150,000 to $250,000 per year and are 3 to 4 years in duration. Projects are discouraged from exceeding $300,000 in any single year. Estimated program budget, number of awards, and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds.

Expanding Geographic and Institutional Range in Computer and Information Science and Engineering

NSF CISE encourages proposal submissions from EPSCoR-eligible institutions to the CISE Future Computing Research programs, with an aim to enhance engagement within the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) enterprise, specifically associated with geographic location, and thereby enabling the jurisdiction's national competitiveness. Through this initiative, CISE aims to promote funded activities that enable sustainable growth in research enterprise in EPSCoR jurisdictions. Collaborative proposals among the EPSCoR and Non-EPSCoR-eligible jurisdictions that are led by EPSCoR institutions are particularly welcomed.

Proposals for Consideration by Multiple CISE Future Computing Research Programs

For proposals that intersect with more than one CISE Future Research program, PIs must identify the most relevant programs in the proposal submission process. For information about submission and how to identify such proposals, refer to the Proposal Preparation Instructions section of this document. In these cases, PIs should also ensure that their proposals meet the program-specific guidelines for each identified research program. NSF CISE program officers will consider co-reviewing these proposals as appropriate.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 400 to 600

Anticipated Funding Amount: $280,000,000

Dependent upon the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs): Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of sub-awards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.

Non-profit, non-academic organizations: Independent museums, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies and similar organizations located in the U.S. that are directly associated with educational or research activities.

Tribal Nations: An American Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges as a federally recognized tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. §§ 5130-5131.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI: 2

For CISE Future CoRe Programs, an individual may not serve as a PI, co-PI, or Senior/Key Personnel on more than two proposals submitted within any consecutive 12-month period across all Future CoRe programs listed in this solicitation.

Proposals submitted to the previous version of CISE core Programs (NSF 24-589); Cyber-Physical Systems (NSF 24-581); Smart and Connected Communities (NSF 25-527) or any other NSF funding opportunities do not count towards the limit on the number of proposals per PI, co-PI or Senior Personnel.

These eligibility constraints will be strictly enforced to treat everyone fairly and consistently. Any proposal that exceeds this limit at the time of submission for any PI, co-PI, or Senior/Key Personnel will be returned without review. No exceptions will be made. Proposals that are withdrawn prior to commencement of the merit review process, or those that are returned without review by NSF, will not count against this proposal limit. Proposers are strongly encouraged to verify the dates of prior submissions to Future CoRe Programs for all personnel on their teams to avoid their proposals being returned without review.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Not Applicable
