https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/future-core-computer-information-science-engineering-future-computing/nsf25-543/solicitation

Title: Networking Technology and Systems (NeTS)
Synopsis: The Networking Technology and Systems (NeTS) program seeks fundamental scientific understanding of and advances in intelligent communication networks, including, but not limited to, edge, home, enterprise, data center, cloud, undersea cable, Internet or Internet-scale networks, and in the wireless areas of cellular, vehicular, mesh, sensor, body area, internet of things (IoT), aerial, spaceborne, and underwater networks, as well as networks spanning multiple domains and scales, e.g., space-air-ground integrated, hybrid wireless-wired, nano, and other networks, and application-aware and artificial intelligence (AI)-driven networking services that depend on communication networks. NeTS supports research in networking technologies including terabit or petabit Ethernet, optical, radio, acoustic, visible light, quantum, and bio-inspired communications/networking. NeTS seeks novel frameworks, architectures, protocols, algorithms, methodologies and experimental approaches including measurement and tools for the design and analysis, development, operation, and management of robust and intelligent networks, including AI-native networks that can learn, reason, adapt, perform tasks, make decisions, and solve problems automatically with minimal human intervention. The program also seeks projects that enable integrated sensing and communication, smart, secure, and energy-efficient network operation with low control and communication overhead. Interdisciplinary proposals related to communications and networking are welcome as well. Proposers should present a solid plan for verification, evaluation, and validation of the proposed techniques. The NeTS program encourages experimentation using NSF-funded infrastructure platforms when applicable.
Topics in the areas of wired, wireless, and integrated next-generation networks
Projects may explore fundamental principles and create innovative networking technologies, protocols, algorithms, and systems that define the future or realistically harness current and emerging technologies, trends, and applications. They may produce practical abstractions, techniques, tools, artifacts, or datasets that address/enhance both general and functional requirements. Network systems proposals are expected to demonstrate a clear understanding of what each component does and how it interfaces with the rest of the system and the environment.
Projects are not limited to the following topics. Rather, researchers are encouraged to address other pressing and challenging networking areas of research, including future networking possibilities. NeTS invites proposals in the broad areas of wired, wireless, and integrated next-generation networks. For example, the program:

Supports research that addresses networking challenges that come with emerging technologies and the integration of various heterogeneous networks, including rethinking the protocol stack, developing novel networking paradigms, protocols, algorithms, routing mechanisms, and required new hardware and software approaches for networks enabled and demanded, for example, by optical, spaceborne, cellular, quantum, bio-inspired networking, and terabit to petabit Ethernet.
Encourages new approaches to creating dependable autonomous, self-driving networks or self-healing networks, for example by replacing traditional methods with automated processes that can adapt to changes without causing instability, especially those based on AI, machine learning (ML) and emerging methods as well as the use of network verification. Projects may address full stack explainability including approaches where the provenance of every data/control flow dependency is well known.
Funds research on holistic approaches to support efficient and dynamic resource allocation, utilization, and sharing; seek efficient and dynamic approaches to integrated sensing and communication, interference management and the coexistence of multiple co-located networks, potentially including different radio technologies and network protocols.
Welcomes proposals that can address key questions relating to high throughput, low latency, pervasive connectivity, energy efficiency, manageability, availability, reliability, resilience, network security, cross-layer optimization, and develop new approaches for communication and networking such as semantic and task-oriented communications.
Supports projects that focus on application-aware networking, such as video and data streaming to support large language models (LLMs), distributed learning, augmented reality/virtual/mixed reality (AR/VR/MR), cooperative perception, robot collaboration, big science, and complex biotech. 
Funds projects that may include networking techniques where constrained physical infrastructure, applications and security characterize networking solutions such as in massive IoT systems and bio-inspired communication systems, or those which leverage knowledge from understanding the global Internet to improve and make more intelligent and resilient large-scale networked applications.
Invites proposals that address research relevant to commercial trends that are expected to impact future networks such as cloud repatriation—where companies are moving their cloud service back in-house and require networks that are secure-by-construction, cost-efficient and agile. Another trend is multi-cloud networking which, for example, may leverage understanding and principles of the massive scale and distributed nature of the Internet in this context.
Supports projects that address on-going trends such as in-network computing and storage, in-network machine learning, networking in disaggregated systems, and programmable networks. There is also a need to scale data centers and explore and mitigate the resulting networking roadblocks in hardware, software, and functionality through integrated designs, for example, in switches, memory, algorithms, and protocols.
Supports networking projects that focus on systems with inherent built-in security and intelligence, such as networking for critical-infrastructure supervised control and data acquisition (SCADA) where verifiable networking is crucial.
Supports projects focusing on end-to-end services that span edge to core to cloud, potentially integrating and optimizing across wired and wireless technologies and networks.  
Welcomes proposals on theoretical approaches for the design and analysis of communication networks, including establishment of performance limits and characterization of achievable trade-offs.
Supports research on wireless networks that utilize a multitude of emerging physical layer technologies. Examples include free-space quantum communication, massive multi-input multi-output (MIMO) antenna systems, millimeter wave (mmWave), terahertz (THz) and higher bands networking, intelligent surfaces, dynamic spectrum access systems, free-space optical and visible light communications, satellite, airborne and underwater communication platforms, and ultra-low latency, low-power wireless networks. 
Seeks research on innovative higher-layer services that can be enabled by wireless communications, such as wireless localization, virtualization, mobile sensing, and dynamic spectrum measurement.

 
What is NOT within the scope of the NeTS program
The following research topics are typically not supported by the NeTS program and may be returned without review (RWR):

Research that resides primarily at the device or application layer or is highly context specific.
Transport network systems, unless the focus of the research is on an enabling communication network.
Social networks, unless the research has a direct connection to communication networking research.
Network science that does not specifically focus on an engineered communication network.
Projects with sensors that do not explicitly focus on networking problems and challenges.
Program ID: 503307
NSF/PD Num: nsf25543
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2008-09-23
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/nets-networking-technology-systems/103516
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE): Future Computing Research (Future CoRe)

I. Introduction

The NSF Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) supports transformative research and education projects that develop new knowledge in all aspects of computing, communications, and information science and engineering through multiple research programs. These programs support research and education activities that advance:

mathematical, scientific and technological foundations of computing communication, hardware, software and emerging technologies;

understanding and development of computer and network systems, cyber-physical systems, and cybersecurity as well as their roles in solving complex scientific, engineering, and societal problems; and

understanding of the inter-related roles of people, computers, and information.

II. Program Description

This solicitation covers submission to the following Future CoRe programs. Research that fits within a single program and interdisciplinary research that spans more than one of these programs are welcome.

Please see the individual program webpages below for more information on what is within scope for these Future CoRe programs:

Algorithmic Foundations (AF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports potentially transformative projects in the theory of algorithms and computational complexity, characterized by algorithmic innovation and rigorous analysis;

Communications and Information Foundations (CIF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research that addresses the theoretical underpinnings of information acquisition, transmission, and processing in communications and information processing systems;

Computer Systems Research (CSR) program [ Program Webpage ] supports the advancement and holistic design and development of integrated software and hardware computing systems, including classical and quantum elements, to enable an integrated, cohesive, intelligent computational ecosystem;

Computing Education Research (CER) program [ Program Webpage ] supports transformative projects that inform our understanding of the effective teaching and learning of computing skills and concepts at all levels to contribute to the development of, and pathways toward a robust workforce well prepared for careers in CISE fields;

Cyber-Physical Systems Foundations and Connected Communities (CPS) program [ Program Webpage ] supports convergent research on intelligent, engineered systems, built from the seamless integration of computation with physical components within natural and built environments. The program seeks foundational and translational advances in all areas of cyber-physical systems, including artificial intelligence for cyber-physical systems, and encourages multidisciplinary socio-technical innovation, transforming the way people, technologies, and the environment interact in communities;

Foundations of Emerging Technologies (FET) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research at the intersection of computing and biological systems, nanoscale science and engineering, quantum information science, and other promising disruptive technologies supporting novel computing/communication models;

Human-Centered Computing (HCC) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research in human-computer interaction, integrating across fields including computing, information, social and behavioral sciences, to (re)design technologies that amplify human capabilities, and understand how human, technical, and contextual aspects of computing and communication systems shape their benefits, effects, and risks;

Information Integration and Informatics (III) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research on computational approaches to the full data lifecycle to maximize the utility of information resources;

Networking Technology and Systems (NeTS) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research that advances intelligent communication network systems, including wired, wireless, Internet, internet of things, quantum, bio-inspired, nano, and other networks, as well as networks that span multiple domains and scales like space-air-ground integrated networks, while exploring their fundamental understanding, properties and trade-offs, and developing innovative tools and techniques, including artificial intelligence (AI), for designing, building, measuring and managing future communication network systems and services;

Robust Intelligence (RI) program [ Program Webpage ] supports computational research to understand and enable intelligent systems in complex, realistic contexts; and

Software and Hardware Foundations (SHF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research in the design, verification, operation, utilization and evaluation of computer hardware and software through novel approaches, robust theories, high-leverage tools, and lasting principles.

The CISE Future Computing Research program anticipates a portfolio of awards with a range of budgets and durations, including projects of smaller scope. Project durations and budgets must be commensurate with the scope of the proposed work up to the maximum limit of $1,000,000 with the duration up to 4 years. Typical projects are approximately $150,000 to $250,000 per year and are 3 to 4 years in duration. Projects are discouraged from exceeding $300,000 in any single year. Estimated program budget, number of awards, and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds.

Expanding Geographic and Institutional Range in Computer and Information Science and Engineering

NSF CISE encourages proposal submissions from EPSCoR-eligible institutions to the CISE Future Computing Research programs, with an aim to enhance engagement within the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) enterprise, specifically associated with geographic location, and thereby enabling the jurisdiction's national competitiveness. Through this initiative, CISE aims to promote funded activities that enable sustainable growth in research enterprise in EPSCoR jurisdictions. Collaborative proposals among the EPSCoR and Non-EPSCoR-eligible jurisdictions that are led by EPSCoR institutions are particularly welcomed.

Proposals for Consideration by Multiple CISE Future Computing Research Programs

For proposals that intersect with more than one CISE Future Research program, PIs must identify the most relevant programs in the proposal submission process. For information about submission and how to identify such proposals, refer to the Proposal Preparation Instructions section of this document. In these cases, PIs should also ensure that their proposals meet the program-specific guidelines for each identified research program. NSF CISE program officers will consider co-reviewing these proposals as appropriate.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 400 to 600

Anticipated Funding Amount: $280,000,000

Dependent upon the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs): Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of sub-awards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.

Non-profit, non-academic organizations: Independent museums, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies and similar organizations located in the U.S. that are directly associated with educational or research activities.

Tribal Nations: An American Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges as a federally recognized tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. §§ 5130-5131.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI: 2

For CISE Future CoRe Programs, an individual may not serve as a PI, co-PI, or Senior/Key Personnel on more than two proposals submitted within any consecutive 12-month period across all Future CoRe programs listed in this solicitation.

Proposals submitted to the previous version of CISE core Programs (NSF 24-589); Cyber-Physical Systems (NSF 24-581); Smart and Connected Communities (NSF 25-527) or any other NSF funding opportunities do not count towards the limit on the number of proposals per PI, co-PI or Senior Personnel.

These eligibility constraints will be strictly enforced to treat everyone fairly and consistently. Any proposal that exceeds this limit at the time of submission for any PI, co-PI, or Senior/Key Personnel will be returned without review. No exceptions will be made. Proposals that are withdrawn prior to commencement of the merit review process, or those that are returned without review by NSF, will not count against this proposal limit. Proposers are strongly encouraged to verify the dates of prior submissions to Future CoRe Programs for all personnel on their teams to avoid their proposals being returned without review.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Not Applicable
