https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/ags-prf-atmospheric-geospace-sciences-postdoctoral-research/nsf22-639/solicitation

Title: Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (AGS-PRF)
Synopsis: The Division of Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences (AGS), awards Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (PRF) to highly qualified early career investigators to carry out an independent research program. The research plan of each Fellowship must address scientific questions within the scope of AGS disciplines. These disciplines include Atmospheric Chemistry (ATC), Climate and Large-Scale Dynamics (CLD), Paleoclimate (PC), and Physical and Dynamic Meteorology (PDM) in the Atmospheric Sciences, and Aeronomy (AER), Magnetospheric Physics (MAG), Solar Terrestrial (ST), and Space Weather Research (SWR) in the Geospace Sciences.
The AGS-PRF program supports researchers (also known as Fellows) for a period of up to 24 months with Fellowships that can be taken to the institution of their choice. The program is intended to recognize beginning investigators of significant potential and provide them with experiences in research that will broaden perspectives, facilitate interdisciplinary interactions, and help establish them in leadership positions within the Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences community. Fellowships are awards to individual Fellows, not institutions, and are administered by the Fellows.
Award Type: fellow
Proposals accepted anytime: 1
Program ID: 12779
NSF/PD Num: nsf22639
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2022-09-30
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/ags-prf-atmospheric-geospace-sciences-postdoctoral-research/nsf22-639
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (AGS-PRF)

I. Introduction

The Division of Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences (AGS) offers 2-year Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (PRFs) to provide opportunities for scientists early in their careers to obtain training beyond their graduate education. The AGS-PRF is intended to recognize beginning investigators of significant potential and provide them with research experiences that will broaden perspectives, facilitate interdisciplinary interactions, and establish them in positions of leadership within the scientific community.

During the tenure of the Fellowships, principal investigators (also known as Fellows) must conduct research on topics supported by AGS programs. Projects may employ any combination of field, laboratory, and computational studies with observational, theoretical, or experimental approaches.

Fellows must affiliate with appropriate research institutions and are expected to devote themselves full time to the Fellowship activities during its term.

II. Program Description

A. Appropriateness for AGS priorities

Any research plan whose focus falls within the scope of any of the AGS disciplines is eligible for support. AGS supports research to add new understanding of the behavior of Earth's atmosphere and near-Earth space as described below.

Sciences that align with the following programs within the Atmospheric Sciences section:

The Atmospheric Chemistry (ATC) program supports research on gases and aerosols in the atmosphere, including their concentration, distribution, sources/sinks, transport, and reactivity.

The Climate and Large-scale Dynamics (CLD) program supports research to advance knowledge about the processes that force and regulate the atmosphere's synoptic and planetary circulation, weather, and climate.

The Paleoclimate program (PC) supports research on the natural evolution of Earth's climate with the goal of providing a baseline for present variability and future trends through improved understanding of the physical, chemical, and biological processes that influence climate over the long-term.

The Physical and Dynamic Meteorology (PDM) program supports research on sub-synoptic meteorological phenomena, including severe and hazardous weather, cloud physics, atmospheric electricity, and boundary layer research.

Sciences that align with the following programs within the Geospace Sciences section:

The Aeronomy program supports research on the mesosphere, thermosphere and ionosphere of the Earth, with a focus on momentum within and between these regions, ionization, recombination, chemical reaction, photo-emission, and the transport of energy.

The Magnetospheric Physics program supports research on the magnetized plasma envelope of the outer atmosphere, including energization by the solar wind; the origin of geomagnetic storms and sub-storms; the population by solar and ionospheric sources; the origin of electric fields; the coupling among the magnetosphere, ionosphere, and atmosphere; and waves and instabilities in the natural plasma.

The Solar Terrestrial program supports research on the processes by which energy in diverse forms is generated by the Sun, transported to the Earth, and ultimately deposited in the terrestrial environment. Proposers interested in the topic of space weather should select from the most relevant one of the three disciplinary programs above in Geospace Sciences when submitting proposals. The Space Weather Research supports fundamental research on, and predictive capabilities for, the state of the connected Sun-Earth system as well as space weather impacts on our technological society.

Artificial intelligence will be considered a priority area within this program. Proposers seeking to address this priority should explain in their proposal how they will integrate artificial intelligence into their research and/or broader impact activities.

Proposers are strongly encouraged to contact the cognizant Program Officer in their area of science (see https://www.nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?div=ags ) to discuss the appropriateness of their research for funding.

B. Host Organizations

The Fellow must affiliate with a primary host organization. The justification of the choice of institution must be made clearly and compellingly in the proposal. Appropriate primary organizations include U.S. Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs), non-profit, non-academic organizations, or for-profit research organizations that are eligible to receive NSF funding.

National centers, facilities or institutes funded by other federal agencies, such as NASA, NOAA, EPA or the U.S. Department of Energy, are ineligible as host institutions. Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) including the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) are ineligible as primary host organizations. Individuals wishing to be hosted at NCAR should apply directly to NCAR as part of the AGS-funded Advanced Study Program (ASP).

Multiple host organizations are permitted, and may be particularly appropriate to pursue interdisciplinary work, collaborative opportunities, and activities related to broadening participation. Regardless of the number of host organizations proposed, a primary host organization must be identified. The Fellow may propose to take the Fellowship to more than one host institution. Normally changes of institution would be sequential, moving from one institution to another during the duration of the Fellowship, but holding the Fellowship at two institutions simultaneously, is also possible.

Because the objectives of the Fellowships include broadening the perspectives and experiences of the Fellows and promoting interdisciplinary research careers, careful consideration should be given to the selection of the scientific mentor(s) and host institution(s). Documentation required from host organizations is described in Section V below.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Fellowship

Estimated Number of Awards: 10

Up to ten Fellowships each year contingent upon availability of funds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $2,000,000

The expected annual budget for the AGS-PRF program is $2 M, for up to 10 awards per year, subject to availability of funds. Year one budget of the Fellowship will be $100,000, and that will increase to $102,000 in year two.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

AGS Postdoctoral Research Fellowship proposals are submitted to NSF directly by individuals who meet the eligibility criteria described below. Each individual (also referred to as proposer) must identify one or more scientific mentor(s) and host institution(s) in the proposal. Activities supported by the AGS Fellowship program may be conducted at any appropriate U.S. host institution as defined in the Program Description.

Who May Serve as PI:

An individual is eligible to submit a proposal to the NSF AGS Postdoctoral Research Fellowship program if all the following criteria are met :

Individual eligibility criteria:

Be U.S. citizens (or nationals) or legally admitted permanent residents of the United States (i.e., have a "green card") at the time the proposal is submitted.

Present research and professional development plans that fall within the purview of the Atmospheric and Geospace Science Sections within the Division of Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences at NSF ( https://www.nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?div=ags ).

Meet one of the following criteria: be currently a graduate student; OR have held a PhD degree in a scientific or engineering field for no more than 2 years at time of submission; OR have less than the equivalent of 18 months full time employment at time of submission if more than 2 years have elapsed since the PhD degree was conferred. To affirm eligibility under this criterion, the proposer must include specific language in the Biographical Sketch.

be currently a graduate student;

OR

have held a PhD degree in a scientific or engineering field for no more than 2 years at time of submission;

OR

have less than the equivalent of 18 months full time employment at time of submission if more than 2 years have elapsed since the PhD degree was conferred. To affirm eligibility under this criterion, the proposer must include specific language in the Biographical Sketch.

Fellowship location criteria:

Proposers are encouraged to expand the network of collaborators and implement the Fellowship at an institution new to the proposer. However, proposers who choose to carry out the postdoctoral Fellowship at the institution where they received their PhD or their current institution at the time of submission must meet these three conditions : (1) have been at this institution for at least 12 months at the time of submission; (2) present a strong justification and clearly explain the benefits of this choice to their research and professional development goals; and (3) have two scientific mentors, one at the hosting institution and a second mentor at a different institution and/or department who is a new collaborator with the proposer.

National centers, facilities or institutes funded by other federal agencies, such as NASA, NOAA, EPA or the U.S. Department of Energy, are ineligible as host institutions.

If a proposer fails to meet any eligibility criterion, their proposal will be returned without review. Proposers uncertain about the eligibility requirements are strongly encouraged to contact a cognizant NSF Program Officer listed in this solicitation.

Awardees must begin the Fellowship within 6 months of notification of an award . NSF review typically takes 3-6 months. If you are a current graduate student, please consider the review timeframe in your decision when to apply. Awardees who have not received their PhD at the time of proposal submission must present a form certifying their PhD prior to starting a Fellowship.

Proposals that fail to meet the above eligibility requirements will be returned without review.

By signing and submitting the proposal, the fellowship candidate is certifying that they meet the eligibility criteria specified in this program solicitation. Willful provision of false information in this request and its supporting documents or in reports required under an ensuing award is a criminal offense (U.S. Code, Title 18, Section 1001).

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

Only individuals may submit proposals. There is no limit on the number of Fellows that an institution may host.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI: 1

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not applicable.

Not applicable.

Other Budgetary Limitations: Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.
