https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/eps-wo-established-program-stimulate-competitive-research-workshop/nsf24-540/solicitation

Title: Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research : Workshop Opportunities (EPS-WO)
Synopsis: The Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) is designed to fulfill the mandate of the National Science Foundation (NSF) to promote scientific progress nationwide. NSF EPSCoR facilitates the establishment of partnerships among academic institutions, government, industry, and non-profit sectors that are designed to promote sustainable improvements in an EPSCoR-eligible jurisdiction’s research infrastructure, Research and Development (R&D) capacity, and R&D competitiveness. Eligibility to participate in NSF EPSCoR funding opportunities, including the EPSCoR Workshop Opportunities program, is described on the EPSCoR website (see criteria for eligibility link).
EPSCoR welcomes proposals for workshops only from institutions within EPSCoR-eligible jurisdictions (i.e. states, territories, commonwealths). These workshops must focus on innovative ways to address multi-jurisdictional efforts on themes of regional or national importance with relevance to the goals and mission of NSF and EPSCoR.
Award Type: standard
Proposals accepted anytime: 1
Program ID: 503341
NSF/PD Num: nsf24540
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2024-02-13
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/eps-wo-established-program-stimulate-competitive-research-workshop/nsf24-540
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR): Workshop Opportunities (EPS-WO)

I. Introduction

A. EPSCoR Mission and Goals

The mission of EPSCoR is to advance excellence in science and engineering research and education to achieve sustainable increases in research, education, and training capacity and competitiveness that will enable EPSCoR jurisdictions to have increased engagement in areas supported by NSF.

NSF EPSCoR goals are to:

catalyze the development of research capabilities and the creation of new knowledge that expand jurisdictions’ contributions to scientific discovery, innovation, learning, and knowledge-based prosperity;

establish sustainable Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) education, training, and professional development pathways that advance jurisdiction-identified research areas and workforce development;

broaden direct participation of diverse individuals, institutions, and organizations in science and engineering research and education initiatives;

effect sustainable engagement of participants and partners, the jurisdiction, the national research community, and the general public through data-sharing, communication, outreach, and dissemination; and,

impact research, education, and economic development at academic, government, and private sector levels.

II. Program Description

EPSCoR Workshop Opportunities Program Description

NSF EPSCoR welcomes proposals for workshops in areas of science and engineering that advance the program’s goals and engage a broad community of investigators or practitioners, while including the intentional involvement of the EPSCoR community. NSF EPSCoR workshops aim to bring communities of thought together to discuss recent research or education findings, explore topics in emerging areas of science and engineering, foster innovative collaborations, expose researchers or trainees to new research and education tools or techniques, or respond to NSF EPSCoR calls for workshops on specific topics.

Expectations of EPSCoR Workshop Proposals

Proposals may address any topic, including the exploration of topic areas that have been described as NSF priorities. For EPSCoR workshop proposals, applicants should demonstrate how the topic is of importance to relevant STEM field(s) and include evidence that the topic will engage and be of particular interest to the greater EPSCoR community. EPSCoR workshop proposal topics may also include proposed activities for the creation of center-level partnerships. Topics related to center-level investments may include but are not limited to Engineering Research Centers , Science and Technology Centers , Regional Innovation Engines , and other current or future federal opportunities. In addition to offering a compelling topic, the goals and desired outcomes, anticipated products, and benefits that the workshop will have for its participants should be explicitly described. Successful proposals will also demonstrate that the team has worked to include the participation of a broad spectrum of talent in STEM at every level—from the advisory committee and leadership to the speakers and participants. A tentative agenda that includes suggested speakers, and letters of support that lend evidence of participation from key participants or collaborators, are also qualities of a strong EPS-WO proposal. EPS-WO proposals should include a plan for communicating workshop outcomes and disseminating workshop products. EPS-WO proposals should also include an evaluation plan that assesses whether the goals of the workshop have been achieved.

Successful workshop proposals will:

include a compelling rationale, with clear goals and desired outcomes; a committed leadership team; institutional support; and leveraged resources.

address multi-jurisdictional efforts, priorities, or interests that require collaboration for optimal success.

address major regional or national themes of relevance to EPSCoR's goals and NSF's mission.

describe plans to foster engagement from a broad range of scientific backgrounds and training.

Additional Guidance

Workshops are not intended for single-institution activities.

Speakers from non-EPSCoR institutions may be involved in the workshop, but funding for their travel expenses must be included in the Participant Support Cost budget category. No funds may be budgeted for non-EPSCoR institutions.

Each funded workshop should result in a publicly-disseminated workshop report that should be posted on the relevant jurisdictions' web sites and must include: The metrics and measures of workshop programmatic success. The extent of engagement from a wide range of scientific backgrounds and training. A plan for widespread dissemination of results. A list of workshop participants. A comprehensive discussion of the workshop's products and specific implementation plans for the next steps.

The metrics and measures of workshop programmatic success.

The extent of engagement from a wide range of scientific backgrounds and training.

A plan for widespread dissemination of results.

A list of workshop participants.

A comprehensive discussion of the workshop's products and specific implementation plans for the next steps.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 1 to 20

Up to 20 awards for in-person, virtual, or hybrid workshops annually (pending the quality of proposals and availability of funds). Awards will be funded for up to one year.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $1,500,000

The anticipated funding amount applies to the current fiscal year, with similar amounts in subsequent years, pending quality of proposals and availability of funds. Proposal budgets for workshops may request up to $200,000 for a project period, but proposals requesting lower amounts are also welcome. Workshop proposals that exceed the maximum budget allowable for this solicitation may be submitted as a workshop proposal using the NSF PAPPG conference proposal submission guidance, rather than through this solicitation, with prior approval of a cognizant NSF EPSCoR Program Officer.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Proposals may be submitted only from institutions or organizations within EPSCoR-eligible jurisdictions. Eligibility to participate in the EPSCoR Workshop Opportunities program is described on EPSCoR’s website . Within EPSCoR-eligible jurisdictions, proposals may be submitted only by the following: Institutions of higher education (PhD-granting and non-PhD-granting), acting on behalf of their faculty members, that are accredited in and have a campus in the United States, its territories, or possessions. Non-profit, non-degree-granting domestic U.S. organizations, acting on behalf of their employees, that include (but are not limited to) independent museums and science centers, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies, and similar organizations that are directly associated with the Nation's research or educational activities. These organizations must have an independent, permanent administrative organization (e.g., an office of sponsored research) located in the United States, its territories, or possessions, and have 501(c)(3) tax status. Tribal Nations: An American Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges as a federally recognized tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. §§ 5130-5131.

Proposals may be submitted only from institutions or organizations within EPSCoR-eligible jurisdictions. Eligibility to participate in the EPSCoR Workshop Opportunities program is described on EPSCoR’s website .

Within EPSCoR-eligible jurisdictions, proposals may be submitted only by the following:

Institutions of higher education (PhD-granting and non-PhD-granting), acting on behalf of their faculty members, that are accredited in and have a campus in the United States, its territories, or possessions.

Non-profit, non-degree-granting domestic U.S. organizations, acting on behalf of their employees, that include (but are not limited to) independent museums and science centers, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies, and similar organizations that are directly associated with the Nation's research or educational activities. These organizations must have an independent, permanent administrative organization (e.g., an office of sponsored research) located in the United States, its territories, or possessions, and have 501(c)(3) tax status.

Tribal Nations: An American Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges as a federally recognized tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. §§ 5130-5131.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.
