https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/nsfs-eddie-bernice-johnson-inclusion-across-nation/nsf22-622/solicitation

Title: NSF's Eddie Bernice Johnson Inclusion across the Nation of Communities of Learners of Underrepresented Discoverers in Engineering and Science Initiative
Synopsis: In 2016, the National Science Foundation (NSF) unveiled a set of “Big Ideas,” 10 bold, long-term research and process ideas that identify areas for future investment at the frontiers of science and engineering (see https://www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/big_ideas/index.jsp). The Big Ideas represent unique opportunities to position our Nation at the cutting edge of global science and engineering leadership by bringing together diverse disciplinary perspectives to support convergence research. As such, when responding to this solicitation, even though proposals must be submitted to the Directorate for STEM Education (EDU) / Division of Equity for Excellence in STEM (EES), once received, the proposals will be managed by a cross-disciplinary team of NSF Program Directors.
The INCLUDES Initiative is a comprehensive, national effort to enhance U.S. leadership in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) discovery and innovation, focused on NSF’s commitment to ensuring accessibility and inclusivity in STEM fields, as communicated in the NSF Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years (FY) 2022 - 2026. The vision of the INCLUDES Initiative is to catalyze the STEM enterprise to work collaboratively for inclusive change, resulting in a STEM workforce that reflects the Nation’s population. More specifically, the INCLUDES Initiative seeks to motivate and accelerate collaborative infrastructure building to sustain systemic change to broaden participation in STEM fields at scale. Significant advancement of the INCLUDES Initiative's goals will result in a new generation of STEM talent and leadership to secure the Nation’s future and long-term economic competitiveness.  


With this solicitation, NSF offers support for five types of projects that connect and contribute to the National Network: (1) Design and Development Launch Pilots, (2) Collaborative Change Consortia, (3) Alliances, (4) Network Connectors, and (5) Conferences. The INCLUDES National Network is a multifaceted collaboration of agencies, organizations, and individuals working collectively to broaden participation in STEM. The INCLUDES National Network serves as a testbed for designing, implementing, studying, refining, and scaling collaborative change models and is composed of: 




INCLUDES funded projects  


Other NSF funded projects 








Subcommittee on Federal Coordination in STEM Education (FC-STEM) agencies  


Scholars engaged in broadening participation research and evaluation, and  


Organizations that support the development of talent from all sectors of society to build an inclusive STEM workforce. 




All INCLUDES funded projects must operationalize five design elements of collaborative infrastructure - (1) shared vision, (2) partnerships, (3) goals and metrics, (4) leadership and communication, and (5) expansion, sustainability, and scale - to create systemic change that broadens participation in STEM.
Award Type: standard, continuing, coop
Program ID: 505289
NSF/PD Num: nsf22622
Status: Waiting for new publication
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2022-07-27
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/nsfs-eddie-bernice-johnson-inclusion-across-nation/nsf22-622
Type: Program
