https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/grfp-nsf-graduate-research-fellowship-program/nsf25-547/solicitation

Title: NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP)
Synopsis: The purpose of the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) is to help ensure the quality, vitality, and strength of the scientific and engineering workforce of the United States. Since 1952, the program recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students who are pursuing full-time research-based master's and doctoral degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields, including STEM education. NSF GRFP was established to recruit and support individuals who demonstrate the potential to make significant contributions in STEM, including STEM education. NSF encourages applications from the full spectrum of talent that the U.S. has to offer.
Award Type: fellow
Program ID: 6201
NSF/PD Num: nsf25547
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2025-09-05
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/grfp-nsf-graduate-research-fellowship-program/nsf25-547
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP)

I. Introduction

The Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) is a U.S. National Science Foundation-wide program that provides Fellowships to individuals selected early in their graduate careers based on their demonstrated potential for significant research achievements in science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) or in STEM education. Three years of support over a five-year period are provided for graduate study that leads to a research-based master's or doctoral degree in STEM or STEM education (see eligible Fields of Study in Appendix).

The program goals are: (1) to select, recognize, and financially support early-career individuals with the demonstrated potential to be high achieving scientists and engineers; and (2) to increase participation in science and engineering of the full spectrum of U.S. talent.

NSF GRFP is a critical program in NSF's overall strategy to develop the globally competitive workforce necessary to ensure the Nation's leadership in advancing science and engineering research and innovation. The ranks of NSF Fellows include numerous individuals who have made transformative breakthrough discoveries in science and engineering, become leaders in their chosen careers, and have been honored as Nobel laureates.

For FY2026, NSF GRFP will refocus on its original statutory and programmatic intent to affect students at the beginning of their STEM graduate training and to award fellowships “to the applicants in such a manner as will tend to result in a wide distribution of scholarships and fellowships throughout the United States.” 42 USC §1869(a). To achieve this goal, NSF GRFP will focus on the discovery and recruitment of individuals who demonstrate outstanding potential in STEM graduate study and will accept applications from undergraduate seniors in bachelor’s degree programs, bachelor’s degree-holders with no prior enrollment in any graduate degree program, individuals enrolled in joint bachelor's-master's degree programs, and first-year graduate students in their first graduate degree program.

To increase awareness of NSF GRFP's return to its original focus, outreach activities will be offered to the broadest swath of potential applicant communities. Multiple virtual outreach events, open to all potential applicants, will be offered. Other outreach and engagement activities also will be offered at conferences and scientific society meetings.

II. Program Description

NSF GRFP awards Fellowships for graduate study leading to research-based master's and doctoral degrees in STEM or in STEM education. GRFP supports individuals proposing a comprehensive plan for graduate education that takes individual interests and competencies into consideration. The plan describes the academic achievements, attributes, and experiences that illustrate the applicant's demonstrated potential for significant research achievements. The applicant must provide a detailed profile of their relevant education, research experience, and plans for graduate education that demonstrates this potential.

Prospective applicants are advised that submission of an application indicates their intent to pursue graduate study in a research-based program in STEM, including STEM education, at an accredited, non-profit institution of higher education having a campus located in the United States, its territories or possessions, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. All applicants are expected to have adequate preparation to enroll in a research-based master's or doctoral program by fall of the year the Fellowship is accepted. From the date of the Fellowship Start through Completion or Termination of the Fellowship, applicants accepting the award (Fellows) must be enrolled in an accredited graduate degree-granting institution of higher education having a campus located in the United States, its territories or possessions, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

In Fiscal Year (FY) 2026, NSF will continue to fund Graduate Research Fellowships in all areas of science and engineering supported by NSF while emphasizing high-priority research areas in alignment with the Administration priorities described in A Letter to Michael Kratsios, Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy – The White House and detailed in the FY 2026 NSF Budget Request to Congress . The high priority research areas are listed under the Major Fields of Study in Appendix 1. Applications are encouraged in all disciplines supported by NSF.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Fellowship

Estimated Number of Awards:

NSF will support new Graduate Research Fellowships under this program solicitation pending availability of funds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $159,000

Per award (Fellowship), pending the availability of funds.

Each fellowship provides three years of support over a five-year fellowship period. For each of the three years of support, NSF provides a $37,000 stipend and $16,000 Cost of Education allowance payment to cover all tuition and mandatory fees to the graduate degree-granting institution of higher education for each fellow who uses the support in a fellowship year. The fellowship is portable and can be transferred to a different institution of higher education if a fellow chooses to transfer to another institution after completion of the first fellowship year. While the fellowship is offered to the individual, the fellowship funds are awarded to the institution of higher education at which a fellow is enrolled, and the institution is responsible for disbursement of the stipend to the fellow.

IV. Eligibility Information

Applicant Eligibility:

Applicants should carefully and thoroughly review the Detailed Eligibility Requirements in Section IV for full information.

Eligibility to apply and receive support from this program is restricted to individuals who meet the following criteria at the time of application and acceptance if offered a fellowship:

Must, at the time of submission, be a U.S. citizen, national, or a permanent resident (“green-card” holder)

Must intend to enroll or be enrolled in an eligible research-based master's or doctoral degree program in an eligible field of study in STEM, including STEM education (See Appendix and Section IV.3 for eligible Fields of Study);

Never have previously accepted a Graduate Research Fellowship;

Have declined any previously offered Graduate Research Fellowship by the declination deadline (if applicable);

Have completed less than one academic year in a graduate degree program (according to the institution’s academic calendar; non-degree coursework must be clearly identified in the transcript and does not count toward this limit).

This means individuals in the following statuses at the time of application are eligible:

Undergraduate in the final (senior) year of a bachelor’s degree program

Bachelor’s degree-holder with NO enrollment in a graduate degree program (non-degree graduate coursework allowed)

Individual enrolled in a joint bachelor’s-master’s degree program with at least three undergraduate years completed

First-year graduate student in their first graduate degree program with less than one academic year completed in the degree program (according to institution’s academic calendar) Individuals enrolled in joint bachelor’s-master’s degree programs are considered graduate students. For GRFP, joint bachelor’s-master’s degrees are defined as degrees concurrently pursued and awarded. Not be a current NSF employee.

Individuals enrolled in joint bachelor’s-master’s degree programs are considered graduate students. For GRFP, joint bachelor’s-master’s degrees are defined as degrees concurrently pursued and awarded.

Not be a current NSF employee.

Applications that do not meet eligibility requirements will be returned without review as being ineligible for a fellowship.

By signing and submitting the application, the applicant certifies meeting the eligibility criteria specified in this program solicitation. Willful provision of false information in this request and its supporting documents or in reports required under an ensuing award is a criminal offense (U.S. Code, Title 18, Section 1001).

Number of Times an Individual May Apply

Undergraduate seniors in bachelor’s degree programs and bachelor's degree holders with no prior enrollment in a graduate degree program have no restrictions on the number of times they can apply before enrolling in a graduate degree-granting program.

Individuals enrolled in joint bachelor's-master's degree programs are considered graduate students and can apply only once.

Individuals enrolled in graduate degree programs can apply only once, in the first year of their first graduate program.

Limit on Number of Applications per Applicant: 1

An eligible applicant may submit only one application per annual competition.

Additional Eligibility Info:

Eligibility is based on the applicant’s status at the application deadline, and at the time of acceptance if offered a Fellowship.

Limit on Number of Applications per Applicant: 1

An eligible applicant may submit only one application per annual competition.

Application Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Application Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not applicable

Letters of Intent: Not applicable

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not applicable

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not applicable

Application Instructions: This solicitation contains information that deviates from the standard NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) proposal preparation guidelines. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Application Instructions: This solicitation contains information that deviates from the standard NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) proposal preparation guidelines. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: No indirect costs are allowed.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

No indirect costs are allowed.

Other Budgetary Limitations: Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.
