https://www.nsf.gov/policies/pappg

Title: Economics
Synopsis: The Economics program supports research designed to improve the understanding of the processes and institutions of the U.S. economy and of the world system of which it is a part. This program also strengthens both empirical and theoretical economic analysis as well as the methods for rigorous research on economic behavior. It supports research in almost every area of economics, including econometrics, economic history, environmental economics, finance, industrial organization, international economics, labor economics, macroeconomics, mathematical economics, and public finance.
The Economics program welcomes proposals for individual or multi-investigator research projects, doctoral dissertation improvement awards, conferences, symposia, experimental research, data collection and dissemination, computer equipment and other instrumentation, and research experience for undergraduates. The program places a high priority on interdisciplinary research. Investigators are encouraged to submit proposals of joint interest to the Economics Program and other NSF programs and NSF initiative areas. The program places a high priority on broadening participation and encourages proposals from groups and regions that traditionally have not participated fully in science, mathematics, and engineering.
The program also funds conferences and interdisciplinary research that strengthens links among economics and the other social and behavioral sciences as well as mathematics and statistics.
The Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants (DDRIG) funding opportunity is designed to improve the quality of dissertation research. DDRIG proposals are submitted by a faculty member on behalf of the graduate student. DDRIG awards provide funds for items not normally available through the student's university such as enabling doctoral students to undertake significant data-gathering projects and to conduct field research in settings away from their campus. DDRIGs do not provide cost-of-living or other stipends or tuition. Outstanding DDRIG proposals specify how the knowledge to be created advances economics science. 
Proposals for Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants (DDRIGS) in Economics should follow the directions for submissions in the PAPPG. Please contact an Economics program officer if you plan to submit a DDRIG proposal. 
For additional funding opportunities, we invite you to also look at the SBE Office of Multidisciplinary Activities web site.
Award Type: standard, continuing
Proposals accepted anytime: 1
Program ID: 506204
NSF/PD Num: pd231320
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2023-05-16
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/economics/pd23-1320
Type: Program
