https://www.nsf.gov/policies/pappg

Title: Multilateral Partnerships Leveraging Excellence (MultiPLEx)
Synopsis: Many of the most pressing challenges in research and innovation require collaboration across national and disciplinary boundaries to achieve important advances. A growing number of topics are best addressed on a multilateral basis, building partnerships that leverage diverse expertise, data, infrastructure, and perspectives to advance understanding on critical topics of regional or global importance. At the same time, funders, research organizations, and researchers alike typically have limited experience with multilateral partnerships.  
The Office of International Science and Engineering’s MultiPLEx program seeks to support visionary, and ambitious international multilateral research partnerships that are required to hasten progress in addressing grand challenges by leveraging research excellence in the U.S. and around the globe. The program also seeks to advance understanding of effective multilateral collaboration.
MultiPLEx  welcomes proposals that

Address urgent research and/or societal challenge of global importance (including but not limited to critical and emerging technology research) and require an inherently international multilateral approach to achieve impactful research results, partnering with at least two countries other than the U.S. Proposals that engage partners across distinct geographic regions are an area of interest.
Make clear how the proposed international collaboration will enable research advances and broader impacts that go beyond what can be accomplished by a narrower team.
Include a diverse group of U.S. institutions and/or individuals, leveraging the full range of talent that society has to offer

MultiPLEx funds support the U.S. research team. Research partners should seek funding from their own national funding agencies or from other sources. A typical MultiPLEx award will be up to three years in duration.   
The MultiPLEX program is not intended to replace existing OISE or directorate programs. Proposals submitted to MultiPLEX must fall outside the scope of existing OISE or directorate programs.  Any proposal submitted to MultiPLEx that is not responsive to this Program Description may be transferred to another OISE program or returned without review.
OISE may periodically issue a Dear Colleague Letter inviting MultiPLEx proposals in specific priority areas. PIs interested in submitting proposals that do not respond to a DCL are strongly encouraged to consult a MultiPLEx program director prior to submission to confirm appropriateness. Unless specified in a DCL, MultiPLEx proposals may be submitted any time.
Award Type: standard, continuing
Proposals accepted anytime: 1
Program ID: 506365
NSF/PD Num: pd247298
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2024-09-13
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/multiplex-multilateral-partnerships-leveraging-excellence/pd24-7298
Type: Program
