https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/future-core-computer-information-science-engineering-future-computing/nsf25-543/solicitation

Title: Software and Hardware Foundations (SHF)
Synopsis: The Software and Hardware Foundations (SHF) program supports potentially transformative research in the design, verification, operation, utilization, and evaluation of computer software and hardware through novel approaches, robust theories, high-leverage tools, and lasting principles. Such advances may involve formal methods, languages, logics, novel software and/or hardware artifacts, or algorithms to enable new or enhanced functionality, verification, usability, and scale.
The SHF program supports all aspects of the science and engineering of software, seeking transformative ideas that reformulate the relationships between requirements, design and evolution of software, and software-intensive systems. SHF supports research projects focusing on program analysis and synthesis, compositionality, verifiability and adaptability of software, as well as research on software analysis and testing techniques for all stages of the software life cycle. SHF also seeks research to increase the automation of software engineering capabilities to attain significant advances in quality and sustainability of software, which may require new representations and processes. Empirical research that increases understanding of software and software creation is also in scope. New ideas and visions are additionally sought related to emerging considerations in the fitness of software, including correctness in the face of environmental variability, policy compliance, and the like. SHF aims to support software engineering research for emerging disciplines and domains, such as machine learning-based applications and systems, cyber-physical and autonomous systems, biocomputing systems, health-care technology, security, and the Internet of Things. Proposals in these areas are in scope, provided they emphasize software engineering research concerns such as requirements and design, software architectures, model-driven software engineering, programmability, software quality assurance, software productivity enhancement, and software sustainability.
The SHF program supports the entire range of programming languages research, from foundations to design to implementation. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, language semantics and type theory, design and implementation of advanced languages and language features, compilers and runtime systems for advanced languages and architectures, abstract interpretation, program analysis and optimization, and design and implementation of domain-specific languages. Research in programming languages, program logics, and models that go beyond mainstream practice, such as those for concurrent, functional, logic, and probabilistic programs, is particularly encouraged. Foundational research that exposes novel synergies between programming languages and other areas of computing, such as distributed and networked systems and machine learning, is also encouraged.
The SHF program supports fundamental research on formal and semi-formal methods for the specification, modeling, development, and verification of software and hardware systems. This includes, but is not limited to, semantics, logics, abstraction, and compositional, refinement-based, and probabilistic methods for the modeling and validation of systems involving discrete and continuous behavior. The program seeks proposals that enhance the applicability, usability, and efficiency of techniques such as abstract interpretation, model checking, theorem proving, automated decision procedures, and constraint solving. SHF supports foundations, algorithms, and tools for software and hardware synthesis. The program also supports development of new formal techniques for emerging areas such as artificial intelligence, autonomous systems, and policy and regulatory compliance.
The SHF program supports fundamental research in all topics in design automation, including but not limited to logical, physical, behavioral, and high-level synthesis methods, testing, and verification; pre- and post-silicon validation; and design methodologies for scalable, low-power, and energy-efficient circuits and systems in silicon technologies. SHF also seeks research on design automation for emerging non-silicon technologies, possibly using non-charge-based state vectors (e.g., electron-spin, micro-electromechanical systems, optics, or phase state of materials), that may have the potential to take computation beyond Moore's Law. Analog circuits as well as ultra-high-frequency communication circuits and systems specifically aimed towards this latter goal are also within scope.
The SHF program supports research on hardware architectures that are inspired by artificial intelligence and machine learning, and that make synergistic use of materials and device technologies, along with their efficient implementations. Hardware experimentation of both model-based or model-free novel machine learning algorithms, e.g., those inspired by information theory and/or statistical mechanics, as examples of computing models inspired by physics are in scope as well.
The SHF program supports foundational research in high-performance computing (HPC) that is aware of, driven by, and inspired by applications and is also informed by platform heterogeneity and architecture concerns. SHF seeks novel research on enabling technologies and tools to balance and optimize performance goals including scalability, power, productivity, repeatability, and validity. SHF encourages software and hardware co-development and co-design to exploit parallelism and concurrency at scale to satisfy energy, performance, reliability, and programmability requirements. A radical examination of the whole hardware/software computing stack from applications to algorithms, to system software, to architectures, to technologies, is encouraged to lay the foundation for next-generation HPC systems.
The SHF program supports foundational research in computer architecture and computer hardware system design, including but not limited to specialization, heterogeneity, energy efficiency, approximation, scalability, parallelism and concurrency, inter-component communication, performance, reliability, and novel computing paradigms. The program supports fundamental and transformative research in processors, accelerators, interconnects, memory, and storage architectures. The program seeks research that takes holistic and cross-layer approaches to fully harness the promises and address the challenges of new and emerging substrate technologies and materials, and that considers emerging trends in computation-intensive, data-intensive, and I/O-intensive applications.
Program ID: 503301
NSF/PD Num: nsf25543
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2008-07-30
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/shf-software-hardware-foundations/pd25-7798
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE): Future Computing Research (Future CoRe)

I. Introduction

The NSF Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) supports transformative research and education projects that develop new knowledge in all aspects of computing, communications, and information science and engineering through multiple research programs. These programs support research and education activities that advance:

mathematical, scientific and technological foundations of computing communication, hardware, software and emerging technologies;

understanding and development of computer and network systems, cyber-physical systems, and cybersecurity as well as their roles in solving complex scientific, engineering, and societal problems; and

understanding of the inter-related roles of people, computers, and information.

II. Program Description

This solicitation covers submission to the following Future CoRe programs. Research that fits within a single program and interdisciplinary research that spans more than one of these programs are welcome.

Please see the individual program webpages below for more information on what is within scope for these Future CoRe programs:

Algorithmic Foundations (AF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports potentially transformative projects in the theory of algorithms and computational complexity, characterized by algorithmic innovation and rigorous analysis;

Communications and Information Foundations (CIF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research that addresses the theoretical underpinnings of information acquisition, transmission, and processing in communications and information processing systems;

Computer Systems Research (CSR) program [ Program Webpage ] supports the advancement and holistic design and development of integrated software and hardware computing systems, including classical and quantum elements, to enable an integrated, cohesive, intelligent computational ecosystem;

Computing Education Research (CER) program [ Program Webpage ] supports transformative projects that inform our understanding of the effective teaching and learning of computing skills and concepts at all levels to contribute to the development of, and pathways toward a robust workforce well prepared for careers in CISE fields;

Cyber-Physical Systems Foundations and Connected Communities (CPS) program [ Program Webpage ] supports convergent research on intelligent, engineered systems, built from the seamless integration of computation with physical components within natural and built environments. The program seeks foundational and translational advances in all areas of cyber-physical systems, including artificial intelligence for cyber-physical systems, and encourages multidisciplinary socio-technical innovation, transforming the way people, technologies, and the environment interact in communities;

Foundations of Emerging Technologies (FET) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research at the intersection of computing and biological systems, nanoscale science and engineering, quantum information science, and other promising disruptive technologies supporting novel computing/communication models;

Human-Centered Computing (HCC) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research in human-computer interaction, integrating across fields including computing, information, social and behavioral sciences, to (re)design technologies that amplify human capabilities, and understand how human, technical, and contextual aspects of computing and communication systems shape their benefits, effects, and risks;

Information Integration and Informatics (III) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research on computational approaches to the full data lifecycle to maximize the utility of information resources;

Networking Technology and Systems (NeTS) program [ Program Webpage ] supports research that advances intelligent communication network systems, including wired, wireless, Internet, internet of things, quantum, bio-inspired, nano, and other networks, as well as networks that span multiple domains and scales like space-air-ground integrated networks, while exploring their fundamental understanding, properties and trade-offs, and developing innovative tools and techniques, including artificial intelligence (AI), for designing, building, measuring and managing future communication network systems and services;

Robust Intelligence (RI) program [ Program Webpage ] supports computational research to understand and enable intelligent systems in complex, realistic contexts; and

Software and Hardware Foundations (SHF) program [ Program Webpage ] supports foundational research in the design, verification, operation, utilization and evaluation of computer hardware and software through novel approaches, robust theories, high-leverage tools, and lasting principles.

The CISE Future Computing Research program anticipates a portfolio of awards with a range of budgets and durations, including projects of smaller scope. Project durations and budgets must be commensurate with the scope of the proposed work up to the maximum limit of $1,000,000 with the duration up to 4 years. Typical projects are approximately $150,000 to $250,000 per year and are 3 to 4 years in duration. Projects are discouraged from exceeding $300,000 in any single year. Estimated program budget, number of awards, and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds.

Expanding Geographic and Institutional Range in Computer and Information Science and Engineering

NSF CISE encourages proposal submissions from EPSCoR-eligible institutions to the CISE Future Computing Research programs, with an aim to enhance engagement within the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) enterprise, specifically associated with geographic location, and thereby enabling the jurisdiction's national competitiveness. Through this initiative, CISE aims to promote funded activities that enable sustainable growth in research enterprise in EPSCoR jurisdictions. Collaborative proposals among the EPSCoR and Non-EPSCoR-eligible jurisdictions that are led by EPSCoR institutions are particularly welcomed.

Proposals for Consideration by Multiple CISE Future Computing Research Programs

For proposals that intersect with more than one CISE Future Research program, PIs must identify the most relevant programs in the proposal submission process. For information about submission and how to identify such proposals, refer to the Proposal Preparation Instructions section of this document. In these cases, PIs should also ensure that their proposals meet the program-specific guidelines for each identified research program. NSF CISE program officers will consider co-reviewing these proposals as appropriate.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 400 to 600

Anticipated Funding Amount: $280,000,000

Dependent upon the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs): Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of sub-awards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.

Non-profit, non-academic organizations: Independent museums, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies and similar organizations located in the U.S. that are directly associated with educational or research activities.

Tribal Nations: An American Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges as a federally recognized tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. §§ 5130-5131.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI: 2

For CISE Future CoRe Programs, an individual may not serve as a PI, co-PI, or Senior/Key Personnel on more than two proposals submitted within any consecutive 12-month period across all Future CoRe programs listed in this solicitation.

Proposals submitted to the previous version of CISE core Programs (NSF 24-589); Cyber-Physical Systems (NSF 24-581); Smart and Connected Communities (NSF 25-527) or any other NSF funding opportunities do not count towards the limit on the number of proposals per PI, co-PI or Senior Personnel.

These eligibility constraints will be strictly enforced to treat everyone fairly and consistently. Any proposal that exceeds this limit at the time of submission for any PI, co-PI, or Senior/Key Personnel will be returned without review. No exceptions will be made. Proposals that are withdrawn prior to commencement of the merit review process, or those that are returned without review by NSF, will not count against this proposal limit. Proposers are strongly encouraged to verify the dates of prior submissions to Future CoRe Programs for all personnel on their teams to avoid their proposals being returned without review.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Not Applicable
