https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/sbirsttr-phase-ii-nsf-small-business-innovation-research-small-business/nsf24-580/solicitation

Title: NSF Small Business Innovation Research / Small Business Technology Transfer Phase II Programs (SBIR/STTR Phase II)
Synopsis: The NSF SBIR/STTR programs support moving scientific excellence and technological innovation from the lab to the market. By funding startups and small businesses, NSF helps build a strong national economy and stimulates the creation of novel products, services, and solutions in private, public, or government sectors with potential for broad impact; strengthens the role of small business in meeting federal research and development needs; increases the commercial application of federally supported research results; and develops and expands the US workforce, especially by fostering and encouraging participation by socially and economically disadvantaged and women-owned small businesses.
The NSF SBIR/STTR Phase II programs provide non-dilutive funding for the development of a broad range of technologies based on discoveries in science and engineering with potential for societal and economic impacts. Unlike fundamental or basic research activities that focus on scientific and engineering discovery itself, the NSF SBIR/STTR programs support the creation of opportunities to move use-inspired and translational discoveries out of the lab and into the market or other use at scale, through startups and small businesses. The NSF SBIR/STTR programs do not solicit specific technologies or procure goods and services. The funding provided is non-dilutive.  Any invention conceived or reduced to practice with the assistance of SBIR/STTR funding is subject to the Bayh/Dole Act.  For more information, refer to Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), #75. 
NSF encourages input and participation from the full spectrum of diverse talent that society has to offer which includes underrepresented and underserved communities. 
NSF seeks unproven, leading-edge, technology innovations that demonstrate the following characteristics:

The innovations are underpinned and enabled by a new scientific discovery or meaningful engineering innovation. 
The innovations still require intensive technical research and development to be fully embedded in a reliable product or service.
The innovations have not yet been reduced to practice by anyone and it is not guaranteed, at present, that doing so is technically possible. 
The innovations provide a strong competitive advantage that are not easily replicable by competitors (even technically proficient ones).
Once reduced to practice, the innovations are expected to result in a product or service that would either be disruptive to existing markets or create new markets/new market segments.

The NSF SBIR/STTR programs focus on stimulating technical innovation from diverse entrepreneurs and start-ups and small businesses by translating new scientific and engineering concepts into products and services that can be scaled and commercialized into sustainable businesses with significant societal benefits. The program provides non-dilutive funding for research and development (R&D) of use-inspired scientific and engineering activities for startups and small businesses. In Phase I, the emphasis is on de-risking those aspects preventing the innovation from reaching technical feasibility and driving the intended impact. In Phase II, R&D continues, but the emphasis starts to shift away from research and to development challenges which, if solved, would result in new sustainable competitive advantages to allow the company to differentiate itself and drive new value propositions to the market and society.
This NSF program is governed by 15 USC 638 and the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 USC §1861, et seq.).
Introduction to the Program
The SBIR and STTR programs were established in 1982 as part of the Small Business Innovation Development Act. The NSF SBIR/STTR programs focus on stimulating technical innovation from diverse entrepreneurs and startups by translating new scientific and engineering discoveries emerging from the private sector, federal labs, and academia into products and services that can be scaled and commercialized into sustainable businesses with significant societal benefits.
The NSF SBIR/STTR programs are now part of the Directorate for Technology, Innovation and Partnerships (TIP), which was recently launched to accelerate innovation and enhance economic competitiveness by catalyzing partnerships and investments that strengthen the links between fundamental research and technology development, deployment, and use.
Award Type: other
Program ID: 505989
NSF/PD Num: nsf24580
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2024-05-30
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/sbirsttr-phase-ii-nsf-small-business-innovation-research-small-business/nsf24-580
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

NSF Small Business Innovation Research / Small Business Technology Transfer Phase II Programs (SBIR/STTR Phase II)

I. Introduction

The SBIR and STTR programs were established in 1982 as part of the Small Business Innovation Development Act. The NSF SBIR/STTR programs focus on stimulating technical innovation from diverse entrepreneurs and startups by translating new scientific and engineering discoveries emerging from the private sector, federal labs, and academia into products and services that can be scaled and commercialized into sustainable businesses with significant societal benefits.

The NSF SBIR/STTR programs are now part of the Directorate for Technology, Innovation and Partnerships (TIP) , which was recently launched to accelerate innovation and enhance economic competitiveness by catalyzing partnerships and investments that strengthen the links between fundamental research and technology development, deployment, and use.

Cognizant Program Officer(s):

Please note that the following information is current at the time of publishing. See program website for any updates to the points of contact.

Contact Your Phase I Program Officer, telephone: (703) 292-8050, email: sbir@nsf.gov

Contact Your Phase I Program Officer, telephone: (703) 292-8050, email: sbir@nsf.gov

Applicable Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number(s):

47.041 --- Engineering

47.049 --- Mathematical and Physical Sciences

47.050 --- Geosciences

47.070 --- Computer and Information Science and Engineering

47.074 --- Biological Sciences

47.075 --- Social Behavioral and Economic Sciences

47.076 --- STEM Education

47.079 --- Office of International Science and Engineering

47.083 --- Office of Integrative Activities (OIA)

47.084 --- NSF Technology, Innovation and Partnerships

II. Program Description

Building upon the primary objectives of the NSF-funded Phase I effort to (i) determine whether the innovation has sufficient intellectual merit and broader impact / commercialization potential to proceed to a Phase II project and (ii) to assess commercial feasibility of the proposed innovation, the aim of the Phase II project is to continue the research and development (R&D) efforts initiated in Phase I and advance the technology and associated product or service aggressively toward commercial deployment.

While startups and small businesses face many types of challenges, the NSF SBIR/STTR funding is intended to specifically focus on challenges associated with technological innovation; that is, on the creation of new products, services, and other scalable solutions based on fundamental science or engineering.

In addition to the standard NSF Merit Review Criteria, the following provides additional clarification of how Intellectual Merit and Broader Impact might be applied to small business concerns (Section II).

The Intellectual Merit criterion encompasses the potential to advance knowledge and leverage fundamental science or engineering research techniques to overcome technical risk. This can be conveyed through the Research and Development (R&D ) of the project.

NSF SBIR/STTR proposals are often evaluated via the concepts of Technical Risk and Technological Innovation. Technical Risk assumes that the possibility of technical failure exists for an envisioned product, service, or solution to be successfully developed. This risk is present even to those suitably skilled in the art of the component, subsystem, method, technique, tool, or algorithm in question. Technological Innovation indicates that the new product or service is differentiated from current products or services; that is, the new technology holds the potential to result in a product or service with a substantial and durable advantage over competing solutions on the market. It also generally provides a barrier to entry for competitors. This means that if the new product, service, or solution is successfully realized and brought to the market, it should be difficult for a well-qualified, competing firm to reverse-engineer or otherwise neutralize the competitive advantage generated by leveraging fundamental science or engineering research techniques.

The Broader Impacts criterion encompasses the potential for the company to drive a benefit to society in terms of addressing major societal challenges. Considering the products developed under this program will have a broad societal reach, will be widely distributed, and will therefore have impacts that are far reaching with people and communities. It is important to ensure adequate assessment of potential benefits and unintended consequences of the proposed technology.

The NSF SBIR/STTR programs support the vision of the NSF, which is a nation that leads the world in science and engineering research and innovation to the benefit of all, without barriers to participation. Proposers may also consider the Broader Impacts Review Criterion at 42 U.S.C. §1862p-14 as related to the potential for broadest societal impact.

An additional, solicitation-specific merit review criteria focused on Commercialization Potential is also required. The Commercialization Potential of the proposed product or service is the potential for the resulting technology to disrupt the targeted market segment by way of a strong and durable value proposition for the customers or users.

The proposed product or service addresses an unmet, important, and scalable need for the target customer base.

The proposed small business concern is structured and staffed to focus on aggressive commercialization of the product/service.

The proposed small business concern can provide evidence of good product-market fit (as validated by direct and significant interaction with customers and related stakeholders).

The Commercialization Potential is to be discussed in terms of both (1) a required Commercialization Plan, and (2) the required Phase I Technical Narrative.

The Commercialization Plan (which includes Market Opportunity, Company/Team, Product/Technology and Competition, and a Finance and Revenue Model, see Section V.) should clearly describe how the company plans to generate revenue based on the product or service developed in Phase I and II. The Plan should represent a compelling vision that describes a business opportunity that could be addressed, in part, with continued NSF support via Phase II funding. The depth and quality of the analysis within the Commercialization Plan is a critical element of the NSF SBIR/STTR proposal review.

Reviewers will also examine the Phase I Technical Narrative (See Section V.) detailing the technical accomplishments of the NSF SBIR/STTR Phase I award and how these results support the underlying commercial opportunity.

More details and information regarding the NSF SBIR/STTR merit review criteria can be found in Section VI of this solicitation and the NSF SBIR/STTR website .

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Fixed Amount Cooperative Agreement

Estimated Number of Awards: 90 to 100

Approximately 85-90 awards for SBIR Phase II per year, pending the availability of funds.

Approximately 8 awards for STTR Phase II per year, pending the availability of funds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $120,000,000

Approximately $110,000,000 for SBIR Phase II.

Approximately $10,000,000 for STTR Phase II.

Estimated program budget, number of awards, and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Proposers must submit their SBIR/STTR Phase II proposal within 6 to 24 months after the start date of their relevant NSF SBIR/STTR Phase I award. Please reference your NSF SBIR/STTR Phase I award notice for award start date. Note that this submission window is NOT extended by no-cost extensions.

Firms qualifying as a small business concern are eligible to participate in the NSF SBIR/STTR programs (see the Guide to SBIR/STTR Program Eligibility for more information). Please note that the size limit of 500 employees includes affiliates . The firm must be in compliance with the SBIR/STTR Policy Directive and the Code of Federal Regulations . For STTR proposals, the proposing small business concern must also include a partner research institution in the project, see additional details below.

An organization whose Phase I award has been terminated by NSF will not be permitted to submit a Phase II proposal predicated on the terminated award. Similarly, an organization whose Phase I award has been suspended by NSF pending a potential investigation may not submit a Phase II proposal while the suspension persists. If the suspension lasts longer than the normal 24-month window to submit the Phase II proposal, and the Phase I award is later reinstated, NSF will provide additional time to complete the Phase I project and submit the Phase II proposal.

In compliance with the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, Section 10636 (Person or entity of concern prohibition) (42 U.S.C. 19235): No person published on the list under section 1237(b) of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) or entity identified under section 1260H of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note; Public Law 116-283) may receive or participate in any grant, award, program, support, or other activity under the Directorate for Technology, Innovation and Partnerships.

Individuals who are a current party to a Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program are not eligible to serve as a Senior/Key Person on an NSF proposal or on any NSF award made after May 20, 2024. See current PAPPG for additional information on required certifications associated with Malign Foreign Talent Organization. The Authorized Organizational Representative (AOR) must certify that all individuals identified as Senior/Key Personnel have been made aware of and have complied with their responsibility under that section to certify that the individual is not a party to a Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program.

The startup’s or small business’ Research and Development (R&D) must be performed within the United States. Startups and small businesses funded by NSF must be majority U.S.-owned companies.

NSF does not fund proposals from companies that are majority-owned by one or more venture capital operating companies (VCOCs), hedge funds, or private equity firms. Proposals from joint ventures and partnerships are permitted, provided the proposing entity qualifies as a small business concern (see Guide to SBIR/STTR Program Eligibility for more information).

“Collaborative Proposal from Multiple Organizations” (a special proposal type in Research.gov) are not allowed.

Start-ups and small businesses that have a social mission in their charter are encouraged to apply.

Socially and economically disadvantaged small businesses and women-owned small businesses are also encouraged to apply.

Who May Serve as PI:

The primary employment of the Principal Investigator (PI) must be with the small business concern at the time of award and for the duration of the award, unless a new PI is named. Primary employment is defined as at least 51 percent employed by the small business concern. NSF normally considers a full-time work week to be 40 hours and considers employment elsewhere of greater than 19.6 hours per week to be in conflict with this requirement. The PI must have a legal right to work for the proposing company in the United States, as evidenced by citizenship, permanent residency, or an appropriate visa. The PI does not need to be associated with an academic institution. There are no PI degree requirements (i.e., the PI is not required to hold a Ph.D. or any other degree). A PI must devote a minimum of one calendar month of effort per six months of performance to an NSF SBIR/STTR Phase II project.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization: 1

1 Phase II submission per Phase I award

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI: 1

For NSF SBIR – 1 PI, co-PIs are not allowed.

For NSF STTR - 1 PI and 1 co-PI are required (the PI must be an employee of the proposing small business and the co-PI must be part of the STTR partner research institution). An individual may act as the co-PI on an unlimited number of NSF STTR proposals.

An individual may be listed as the PI for only one proposal submitted at a time to this NSF SBIR/STTR Phase II solicitation.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: This solicitation contains information that deviates from the standard NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) proposal preparation guidelines. Please see the full text of the solicitation for further information.

Full Proposals: This solicitation contains information that deviates from the standard NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) proposal preparation guidelines. Please see the full text of the solicitation for further information.

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.
