https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/nqvl-nsf-national-quantum-virtual-laboratory-quantum-testbeds/nsf24-586/solicitation

Title: NSF National Quantum Virtual Laboratory - Quantum Testbeds (NQVL)
Synopsis: The National Quantum Initiative (NQI) Act1 aims to ensure the continuing leadership of the United States (U.S.) in quantum information science and technology. In conformance with the NQI goals, an argument2-5 was set forth for a renewed emphasis on identifying and fostering early adoption of quantum technologies to transform the field of Quantum Information Science and Engineering (QISE) and to accelerate broader impacts on society. A systematic approach to maturing quantum technology platforms by integrating end-users and potential customers from other fields of science and engineering and other sectors of the economy into cycles of research, development, and demonstration should lower the barriers for end-users to pioneer new applications. NSF support for use-inspired and translational research in QISE, combined with continued strong support of the underlying foundational research, is anticipated to accelerate development of a market for quantum technologies.
With this program solicitation, the Foundation is taking the next step in implementing the National Quantum Virtual Laboratory (NQVL) concept as an overarching shared infrastructure designed to facilitate the translation from basic science and engineering to the resultant technology, while at the same time emphasizing and advancing its scientific and technical value. The NQVL aims to develop and utilize use-inspired and application-oriented quantum technologies. In the process, NQVL researchers will explore quantum frontiers6, foster the development of QISE education and workforce development strategies, engage in outreach activities at all levels, and promote input and participation from the full spectrum of talent in QISE, thereby lowering barriers at all entry points of the research enterprise. Engagement with all sectors of the United States (U.S.) QISE community will be necessary for this initiative to succeed, and, indeed, the project is designed to include participation from a full spectrum of organizations who have expertise to contribute. In particular, NSF recognizes that the involvement of industry partners is essential and will welcome these to be a part of the overall structure. Partnerships with other U.S. Federal agencies under the NQI umbrella are also encouraged.
While this solicitation lays out the vision for the entire NQVL program that includes Quantum Science and Technology Demonstration (QSTD) projects, support for enabling technologies through Transformative Advances in Quantum Systems (TAQS), as well as a central coordination hub, only proposals for Design- and Implementation-phase QSTDs are solicited at this time.
Submission of a QSTD:Design proposal is contingent upon the existence of a QSTD:Pilot project in the same topical area, and the positive recommendation from the Conceptual Design Review of the QSTD:Pilot project. The QSTD:Design project builds on progress made in the QSTD:Pilot phase.
Submission of a QSTD:Implementation proposal is contingent upon the existence of a QSTD:Design project in the same topical area, and the positive recommendation from the Preliminary Design Review of the QSTD:Design project. The QSTD:Implementation project builds on progress made in the QSTD:Design phase.
It is required that prospective PIs contact the NQVL Program Officer(s) as soon as possible, but not later than two weeks before submitting a proposal in response to this solicitation, to ascertain that the focus and budget of their proposal is appropriate for this solicitation.

H.R.6227 - National Quantum Initiative Act, https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/6227
Accelerating Progress Towards Practical Quantum Advantage, A National Science Foundation Project Scoping Workshop (2022), https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.14757
Quantum Computer Systems for Scientific Discovery, PRX Quantum 2, 017001 (2021) https://doi.org/10.1103/PRXQuantum.2.017001
Development of Quantum InterConnects for Next-Generation Information Technologies, PRX Quantum 2, 017002 (2021) https://doi.org/10.1103/PRXQuantum.2.017002
Quantum Simulators: Architectures and Opportunities, PRX Quantum 2, 017003 (2021) https://doi.org/10.1103/PRXQuantum.2.017003
Quantum Frontiers: Report on Community Input to the Nation's Strategy for Quantum Information Science, https://www.quantum.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/QuantumFrontiers.pdf
Award Type: coop
Next due date (Y-m-d): 2026-04-07, 2026-04-07, 2026-04-07, 2026-04-07
Program ID: 506264
NSF/PD Num: nsf24586
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2024-06-27
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/nqvl-nsf-national-quantum-virtual-laboratory-quantum-testbeds/nsf24-586
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

NSF National Quantum Virtual Laboratory - Quantum Testbeds (NQVL) Quantum Science and Technology Demonstrations (QSTD): II. Design & Implementation

I. Introduction

The translation from basic knowledge to new, scalable technologies that can provide solutions to real-world problems is a multi-step process that requires prototyping, validation, at-scale testing, and eventual full-scale demonstration. As an approach to achieving this goal for quantum-related technologies, NSF has instituted the National Quantum Virtual Laboratory (NQVL) concept. The overarching goal of the NQVL is the demonstration of practical quantum advantage, the actual application of the tools of Quantum Information Science and Engineering (QISE) to problems that will enable solutions that classical approaches can only solve much less efficiently or not at all.

The NQVL vision is to support a highly accessible shared research infrastructure framework that draws on the full spectrum of expertise throughout the Nation to rapidly translate QISE ideas formulated in the laboratory through prototyping, validation, at-scale testing, and eventual full-scale deployment. A co-design approach will facilitate the quick transfer of discoveries from one phase to the next, enable the rapid identification of gaps, and draw on the talent necessary to close these gaps. A key focus of the program will be to develop education and workforce development strategies that promote input and participation from the full spectrum of talent in QISE by expanding access to state-of-the-art resources and prototypes to all parts of the U.S. research ecosystem. While the completed NQVL will consist of a set of primary nodes defined by the major Quantum Science and Technology Demonstration projects defined below, the overall structure is designed to serve as a resource for the community at large, facilitating the flow of talent and ideas through a central coordination body.

The successful translation of QISE research under the NQVL will require the integration of several layers, from fundamental principles to prototypes to applications, utilizing a convergent, systems engineering, and co-design approach. The co-design of enabling technologies (e.g., reliable materials fabrication, scalable device manufacturing, dependable quantum interconnects, or robust software stack) and sufficiently mature physical platforms will result in Quantum Science and Technology Demonstrations (QSTD) for scientific discovery that will be made available for use by the broad scientific community. Users will identify applications that can be co-designed with a rapid cycle of system upgrades, resulting in the transition of ideas that are still in the early conceptual stages into prototypes that are in level of readiness that they can be handed off to the private sector.

The NQVL is envisioned as having three components, though only the Design and Implementation phases of the first component below are the focus of this solicitation:

NQVL:QSTD – Quantum Science and Technology Demonstration projects. These projects will make up the scientific and engineering core of the activities that combine to form a federated NQVL infrastructure and are expected to pass through three phases: Pilot, Design, and Implementation. Given the project nature of the NQVL:QSTD activity it is expected that the participants will proceed through all three project development phases as listed in the eligibility requirements. Each NQVL:QSTD project is expected to define a quantum advantage goal and a projected pathway for achieving that goal. It is expected that this pathway will have a focus on the design and integration of quantum systems co-designed with applications developed by the full spectrum of talent of the user community. Through this process of systems design and prototyping, the project will connect the underlying basic scientific knowledge to an application that is identified by this end-user community and fostered by direct interactions between these users, the systems engineers, and the basic science developers. Those activities will be complemented by appropriately scaled education and workforce development plans for training talent in the quantum workforce.

Each NQVL:QSTD project is expected to define a quantum advantage goal and a projected pathway for achieving that goal. It is expected that this pathway will have a focus on the design and integration of quantum systems co-designed with applications developed by the full spectrum of talent of the user community. Through this process of systems design and prototyping, the project will connect the underlying basic scientific knowledge to an application that is identified by this end-user community and fostered by direct interactions between these users, the systems engineers, and the basic science developers. Those activities will be complemented by appropriately scaled education and workforce development plans for training talent in the quantum workforce.

NQVL:TAQS – NSF aims to provide resources to support research and development of enabling technologies identified by the NQVL:QSTD projects as they mature through the various phases. NSF envisions doing this through the mechanism of the Transformative Advances in Quantum Systems (TAQS) program as an independent funding opportunity that will address critical needs of the NQVL infrastructure as well as contribute to expanding the access to the Laboratory to a wider community.

NQVL:Central – NQVL Planning and Coordination. NSF anticipates support for one NQVL Central Hub that will perform three distinct functions: i) promote collaboration and networking between the NQVL project teams; ii) promote engagement with the broad QISE community, partnerships with others and outreach activities to the general public; and iii) facilitate community oversight and the development of success metrics and benchmarks. The first function will enable the identification and potential exchange of component parts among the teams, especially in the Implementation phase. The other two functions recognize the need for greater accountability to the wider QISE community and to the public. As such, NQVL:Central will be called upon to serve as the intellectual hub for the growing QISE academic community. The NQVL Central Hub will also facilitate connections between the units of the NQVL and the activities of other agencies as well as establish mechanisms for industrial participation in the QSTD goals. The NQVL Central Hub will connect with the Quantum Economic Development Consortium (QED-C) and professional societies whose membership includes existing and potential practitioners in QISE. The NQVL Central Hub will host workshops and scientific programs that foster connections and dissemination throughout the QISE community. Lastly, the NQVL Central Hub will be asked to develop and maintain a Strategic Plan for NQVL investments, a living community document designed to keep abreast with evolving trends in the field, progress toward community goals, management and coordination, and implementation of new directions.

As such, NQVL:Central will be called upon to serve as the intellectual hub for the growing QISE academic community. The NQVL Central Hub will also facilitate connections between the units of the NQVL and the activities of other agencies as well as establish mechanisms for industrial participation in the QSTD goals. The NQVL Central Hub will connect with the Quantum Economic Development Consortium (QED-C) and professional societies whose membership includes existing and potential practitioners in QISE. The NQVL Central Hub will host workshops and scientific programs that foster connections and dissemination throughout the QISE community. Lastly, the NQVL Central Hub will be asked to develop and maintain a Strategic Plan for NQVL investments, a living community document designed to keep abreast with evolving trends in the field, progress toward community goals, management and coordination, and implementation of new directions.

The development of the NQVL is expected to take place over several years. The present solicitation concerns only the Design and Implementation phases of the QSTD project components of the NQVL. Separate solicitations will be issued for the other components of NQVL, depending on the progress in the QSTD phases. At every QSTD project development phase, it is critical to keep in mind the full project development as described below while formulating plans, especially as many of the general requirements will apply to each phase. Support for the QSTD-enabling technology development part of the NQVL program will be on an as-needed basis as the subject of future NSF funding opportunities.

The NQVL program is intended as a national, community-driven effort that supports the smooth integration and translation from fundamental science and engineering to use-inspired applications. Building on the continued and sustained support of fundamental research from existing NSF programs, the NQVL will draw together expertise and talent from a broad range of disciplines to enable the creation and application of functional quantum devices and systems. Coordination will be provided through a federated infrastructure that serves much like a laboratory, but without the physical co-location of all assets and infrastructure, to identify roles and resource needs and establish mechanisms to enable all members of this virtual laboratory to communicate and function together as one coordinated unit. The federated NQVL structure, which will be developed and led by the community, should enable anyone to become engaged and contribute to advances in QISE.

II. Program Description

Note: The full NQVL program is being implemented in multiple iterations, each with its own solicitation. The present solicitation applies only to the Design and Implementation phases of the Quantum Science and Technology Demonstration (QSTD) component. The full scope across all three phases of this component is outlined here to help prospective proposers decide on the scale and scope of their proposals to this solicitation within the context of anticipated future goals for the entire program.

The Quantum Science and Technology Demonstration (QSTD) projects form the scientific and technological core efforts the NQVL is designed to enable. Each QSTD project will have identified a technology goal that has the potential for demonstrating quantum advantage that could lead to translation in the near term. Each project will also have identified a potential pathway for achieving this goal, including the basic science from which the pathway derives, the participants and skill-sets critical for the success of the project, and the user community that will derive the benefit. The phase-wise development that is planned for each project recognizes that this is a fluid process. Plans proposed at the beginning will have to be modified as detailed design and then implementation proceeds. Challenges are to be expected and must be addressed in the time allowed. Additional members with special expertise may need to be included to address these gaps. Feedback from potential users may suggest modifications necessary to deliver a useful end product. And systems engineering steps along the way may dictate changes and/or suggest improvements that speed up the process. The NQVL infrastructure provides the framework through which these changes can be implemented smoothly and quickly. In addition, the NQVL infrastructure will foster essential collaboration, coordination, and cooperation between the various QSTD projects, which might have a different technology focus. This will help identify gaps that apply to more than just a single project, thus magnifying the impact of developments along the way. Activities in areas of common interest or capabilities that benefit more than one QSTD project may be supported separately to maximize synergies and optimize resource allocations. It is also possible that these supporting developments could in turn lead to their own applications independently of the quantum advantage goal. Support for the acquisition or development and implementation of research infrastructure may also be included. The QSTD projects will also develop effective strategies for education and workforce development.

The QSTD projects fall into the category of long-duration NSF investments that require substantial funding over multiple award cycles. They are expected to be developed in three phases: Pilot, Design, and Implementation. Each phase will evolve into the next as the projects are refined and increasingly focused on prototype development and future translation.

1. The Pilot phase is focused on the development of the conceptual design of the QSTD project. Completion of the Pilot phase is required for submission to the Design and Implementation phases. By the conclusion of the Pilot phase, the team will be expected to have completed the following:

Refine the science questions;

Define requirements and prioritize research objectives;

Identify enabling technologies and risks;

Identify critical partnerships and dependencies;

Develop top-down cost and contingency estimates;

Formulate initial risk assessment;

Draft initial Project Execution Plan ; and

Draft initial Education and Workforce Development Plan.

Conceptual Design Review: Nine (9) months into the project, NSF will conduct a site visit panel review of each Pilot project. The purpose of the review would be to assess the progress made by the team, provide feedback, and evaluate the readiness of the team to advance to the Design phase of the QSTD development process.

The Pilot phase is complete when a package containing the QSTD Conceptual Design and the QISE Strategic Plan on the QSTD topic, together with the draft Project Execution Plan and Education and Workforce Development plan leading to a QSTD Preliminary Design, is received and reviewed by NSF.

2. The Design phase is focused on the preliminary design development of the QSTD project.

The NQVL program recommendation for advancement from the Pilot to the Design phase is required for a proposal submission to the QSTD:Design phase.

A successful Design proposal will incorporate the QSTD preliminary project design, demonstrate technical readiness, and include planning for the total anticipated QSTD project lifetime. Design proposals must also include an appropriately scaled Project Execution Plan (PEP) describing how the project will be managed, the scope of work in a Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) format along with a WBS dictionary, the budget estimate and basis of estimate for each WBS element, and the risk or uncertainty in the budget estimate accompanied by the methodology for risk and budget contingency estimation. A resource-loaded schedule may also be required to support the proposed QSTD system integration funding profile. Projection of implementation costs should be revisited in an updated plan for the implementation component of the QSTD project. The Design phase may take up to two years at a cost of up to $2,000,000 per year.

Specifically, the team will:

Develop enabling technology;

Update risk analysis, develop risk mitigation strategies;

Develop bottom-up cost and contingency estimates;

Develop preliminary operations cost;

Develop Project Management Control System;

Develop preliminary Project Execution Plan;

Develop preliminary Education and Workforce Development Plan; and

Identify key staff.

NSF requires that each Design team includes a professional Project Manager as part of the project leadership.

Preliminary Design Review: Nine (9) months into the project, NSF will conduct a site visit panel review of each Design project. The purpose of the review will be to assess the progress made by the team, provide feedback, and evaluate the readiness of the team to advance to the Implementation phase of the QSTD development process. The site visit will focus on the technical and project management review of the Design project.

The Design project is eligible for a second year of NSF support. Therefore, a second site visit panel review may be conducted twelve (12) months later.

The Design phase is complete when a package containing the QSTD Preliminary Design, together with the draft Project Execution Plan, Education and Workforce Development plan, and funding request leading to a QSTD Final Design, is received and reviewed by NSF.

3. The Implementation phase includes the final design of the first-generation QSTD system, followed by the system integration and subsequent operations of this initial prototype, while at the same time pursuing the development of the enabling technology for the next-generation QSTD system.

The NQVL program recommendation for advancement from the Design to the Implementation phase is required for a proposal submission to the QSTD:Implementation phase.

The Implementation phase includes two components: first-generation design completion, assembly, and operations (Gen-1) and next-generation technology development (Gen-n). The Gen-1 component will proceed in two stages, locking in the final design (Final Design stage), followed by developing the first prototype and assembling and enabling the first users, or operations (Operations stage). It is expected that the subsequent Gen-n phase will proceed simultaneously with the Operations stage as the developers build off the experience gained with actual use, as envisioned in the co-design approach.

For the Final Design stage , the QSTD proposal demonstrates that the enabling research and technology development for the first-generation QSTD system integration project is completed, and that bid packages for major contracts or acquisitions have been completed. The QSTD system integration budget estimate for the first-generation QSTD is refined so that it is based substantially on externally provided information rather than internal engineering estimates (vendor quotes, budgetary estimates, etc.) Key staff members needed to manage project activities are recruited and ready to commence system integration. Commitments from external partners in the activity are confirmed. The largest and most complex projects are encouraged to use appropriately scaled Earned Value Management reporting during system integration and should prepare an Earned Value Management System during this phase in readiness for system integration.

During the Final Design stage, with a duration of two years, the team will:

Harden key technologies;

Refine bottom-up cost and contingency estimates;

Finalize risk assessment and mitigation plan;

Finalize Project Management plan;

Develop Project Execution Plan (PEP);

Finalize Education and Workforce Development Plan (E&WDP); and

Complete recruitment of key staff.

During the Final Design stage, the team may have Monthly Oversight meetings with NSF program staff. The team may be required to submit Intermediate Reports monthly via Research.gov.

Final Design Review: NSF will conduct a site visit panel review of each Implementation project eighteen (18) months into the award period. The purpose of the review would be to assess the progress made by the team, provide feedback, and evaluate the readiness of the team to advance to the Operations stage of the QSTD Implementation phase.

The NQVL program recommendation is required for advancement from the Final Design stage to the Operations stage of the QSTD:Implementation phase.

During the Operations stage , the team activities will focus on:

System integration, testing, commissioning of the QSTD;

Operations and user support once a QSTD system is accepted by NSF; and

Development of the technology needed for and design for the next-generation QSTD.

During all activities in the Implementation phase, the team may have Monthly Oversight meetings with NSF program staff. The team will be required to submit Intermediate Reports quarterly via Research.gov.

NSF may conduct annual site visit panel reviews of each QSTD:Implementation project in the Operations stage. The purpose of the review would be to assess the progress made by the team and provide feedback.

QSTD awards for projects in the Implementation phase will be in the form of cooperative agreements that contain terms and conditions specific to the nature and risks associated with the project.

Each phase of the QSTD projects will follow on the previous phase and constitutes the next step in the refinement of the project. At each phase proposals will be invited only from those teams, or combinations thereof, who have participated in the previous phase. The Implementation phase can be expected to last for six years, with a possibility of one renewal, at a cost between $7,000,000 and $10,000,000 per year.

The following language applies to the technical review of all phases of all QSTD projects:

Scientific Review

Proposals are considered first based on their science goals and their potential of translation from laboratory to practice. Given the significant resources required to execute a QSTD project and the fact that a QSTD project will extend for more than a single award cycle, the scientific goals and the specific outcomes must be compelling and clearly articulated in the proposal. NSF proposal review panels will conduct a comparative review of all proposals submitted to the NQVL program in a given fiscal year. The review panels may be asked to consider the programmatic balance of investments across the full NQVL program.

Technical and Project Management Review

The feasibility of the proposed activities will be reviewed thoroughly. Given the scale and complexity of most large NSF investments a separate panel may assess the implementation plans outlined in the proposal. As QSTD proposals will likely include acquisition, technology development or fabrication activities, the proposal review may consider technical readiness, risk mitigation, project management plans, budgets, and schedules. For long-duration projects with a lifetime possibly exceeding a single award period, contingent on selection in a subsequent development phase, the technical review may also consider performance schedules and the planning for the total anticipated number of system integration and development cycles in the QSTD project, including possible operations. For renewal proposals, the record of success in achieving any previous set of milestones will be taken into consideration. As needed, these reviews may involve site visits. In all cases, the technical review panel will be asked to consider and provide guidance to the Program on the appropriate duration of the award and milestones needed to evaluate progress.

Education and Workforce Development Plan Review

The NQVL program seeks to identify and promote effective education and workforce development strategies that promote input and participation from the full spectrum of talent in QISE thereby lowering barriers at all entry points of the research enterprise. All three phases of the QSTD project development process, i.e. the Conceptual, Preliminary, and the Final Designs of the QSTD project, are required to include appropriately scaled education and workforce development plans for training talent in the workforce in QISE. Examples of activities as part of the Education and Workforce Development Plan (E&WDP) may include, but are not limited to: i) QISE-centric curricula (K through Graduate level); ii) opportunities for students to interact with industry partners, for example through collaboration on research projects, internships, fellowships or entrepreneurial activities; iii) effective and evidence based educational approaches leading to development of skilled talent in the QISE workforce through formal and informal education; or iv) up-skilling and re-skilling working professionals. A dedicated E&WDP review will be conducted at each stage of the QSTD project development process. The E&WDP implementation will be reviewed annually once the QSTD:Implementation project reaches the Operations stage. The Education and Workforce Development Plan is intended as a living document that will be updated as needed.

Award Oversight

QSTD awards beyond the Pilot phase will be made through cooperative agreements that contain terms and conditions specific to the nature and risks associated with the project. These may involve site visits or mid-term reviews, and NSF approval of changes in management or schedule. Oversight will include monitoring progress towards any milestones established during the technical review. The duration of support will be determined based on the scientific goals of the project with input from the technical review and will consider the financial burden on the NQVL program. Proposals for continued support may involve both scientific and technical review, as appropriate at the time of the proposal submission. Appropriate close-out should be planned. For the largest investments a close-out phase may be described in the cooperative agreement.

General Review Criteria

All QSTD proposals will be evaluated using the NSF merit review criteria concerning intellectual merit and broader impacts, as well as an assessment as to how well the proposed QSTD project will address the stated science goals and QSTD impacts. Consideration of all QSTD projects begins by evaluating and prioritizing the science goals within the NQVL, and by determining the feasibility of the implementation plan. For each of the relevant phases – Pilot, Design, and Implementation – the associated deliverables from the previous phase will be reviewed before advancing on to the next phase. At each phase of development, the NSF may choose to provide support through the next phase or end its involvement. At successive development phases, the reviews will be increasingly more detailed and will involve an increasing level of commitment from the NSF. Project planning must take into account the total project lifetime. The NSF investment in any one QSTD project is of finite duration.

NSF has as one of its over-arching principles the fostering of talent across the scientific community. All QSTD proposals submitted through any of the solicitations issued as part of the NQVL program will be required to identify steps that will be taken to promote this goal and can expect to be reviewed as to how well this is being addressed.

Review of the QSTD proposal and subsequent oversight of QSTP awards will scale with the size and complexity of the proposed project as described in the 2021 Research Infrastructure Guide (RIG) NSF 21-107 , or subsequent revisions in effect at time of proposal submission found at: https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/lfo/lfo_documents.jsp . Prospective PIs are strongly encouraged to familiarize with Chapter 5 of the Research Infrastructure Guide (RIG) for guidance on planning and oversight requirements relevant to QSTD projects. The guidelines listed here follow standard practices for activities of this scope.

The Design and Implementation phases of a QSTD project will be conducted in the following sequence:

Design phase: NSF aims to support up to eight (8) Design projects with a duration of up to two years, at the level of up to $2,000,000 per year. The number of awards will depend on the quality of the proposals and the availability of funds appropriated by Congress.

Submission of a QSTD:Design proposal is contingent upon the existence of a QSTD:Pilot project in the same topical area, and the positive recommendation from the Conceptual Design Review of the QSTD:Pilot project. Advancing from the QSTD:Pilot to the QSTD:Design phase, the Lead Organization and the Lead PI may change subject to the eligibility limits on number of proposals per organization and per PI or co-PI stated in this solicitation.

The QSTD Pilot teams are expected to collaborate, coordinate, and cooperate with each other and synergies are strongly encouraged. Following upon a clear and agreed-upon understanding of goals and objectives, the selection of a Lead Organization, and approval by the NSF to advance from the Pilot to the Design phase, QSTD Pilot teams may choose to consolidate prior to submitting a QSTD Design proposal to advance to the Design phase.

Implementation phase: NSF aims to support up to six (6) Implementation projects with a duration of six years. The level of NSF support for QSTD Implementation projects will scale with the complexity of the QSTD project but is expected to range between $7,000,000 to $10,000,000 per project per year. The number of awards will depend on the quality of the proposals and the availability of funds appropriated by Congress. The QSTD Implementation projects are eligible for a one-time six-year renewal, contingent upon the quality of a new proposal and the availability of funds appropriated by Congress.

Submission of a QSTD:Implementation proposal is contingent upon the existence of a QSTD:Design project in the same topical area, and the positive recommendation from the Preliminary Design Review of the QSTD:Design project. Advancing from the QSTD:Design to the QSTD:Implementation phase, the Lead Organization and the Lead PI may change subject to the eligibility limits on number of proposals per organization and per PI or co-PI stated in this solicitation.

The QSTD Design teams are expected to collaborate, coordinate, and cooperate with each other and synergies are strongly encouraged. Following upon a clear and agreed-upon understanding of goals and objectives, the selection of a Lead Organization, and approval by the NSF to advance from the Design to the Implementation phase, QSTD Design teams may choose to consolidate prior to submitting a QSTD Implementation proposal to advance to the Implementation phase.

NSF requires that the leadership of each Implementation team separates roles and responsibilities with respect to the scientific and project management components of the QSTD project. The Project Manager will be solely in charge of delivering each QSTD generation on time and on budget.

Each QSTD Implementation team will maintain the QISE Strategic Plans on the specific topic of the QSTD project. QISE community town hall meetings may be convened at annual intervals. Specific details may be project dependent and will be captured in the QSTD Community Outreach plan with the overarching goal of fostering an open scientific dialogue and ensuring the broad participation of the entire QISE community.

As indicated above, the QSTD Implementation teams are expected to collaborate, coordinate, and cooperate with each other. Synergies are strongly encouraged.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Cooperative Agreement

Estimated Number of Awards: 14

The number of awards for each QSTD phase will be determined by separate review processes and will be based on quality of proposals, responsiveness to priorities of the NQVL program, and the availability of funds appropriated by Congress.

It is estimated that up to eight (8) QSTD Design awards will be granted in total over three competition rounds. It is estimated that up to six (6) QSTD Implementation awards will be granted in total over three competition rounds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $32,000,000

This solicitation pertains to the Design and Implementation development phases of the QSTD projects part of the NQVL program. QSTD:Design awards may be funded at a level up to $2,000,000 per year for up to two years. QSTD:Implementation awards may be funded at a level up to $10,000,000 per year for six years.

NSF will support the Design phase of the NQVL:QSTD projects with a total budget of up to $32,000,000. Funding for the Implementation Phase will depend on progress made by the NQVL:QSTD teams and the availability of funds appropriated by Congress.

Estimated program budget, number of awards and average award size/duration are subject to the quality of the proposals and the availability of funds appropriated by Congress.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

The complete process for determining eligibility to submit to the Design and Implementation Phases is described in Section II, Program Description.

NQVL:QSTD:Design Submission of a QSTD:Design proposal is contingent upon the existence of a QSTD:Pilot project in the same topical area, and the positive recommendation from the site visit panel that will review the QSTD:Pilot project nine-months into the QSTD:Pilot project. Transitioning from the QSTD:Pilot to the QSTD:Design phase, the Lead Organization and the Lead PI may change subject to the eligibility limits on number of proposals per organization and per PI or co-PI stated in this solicitation. Following upon a clear and agreed-upon understanding of goals and objectives, the selection of a Lead Organization, and approval by the NSF to advance from the Pilot to the Design phase, QSTD:Pilot teams may choose to consolidate prior to submitting a QSTD:Design proposal to advance to the Design phase. There are no restrictions or limitations on the type of organization eligible to serve as Lead Organization on the proposal.

Submission of a QSTD:Design proposal is contingent upon the existence of a QSTD:Pilot project in the same topical area, and the positive recommendation from the site visit panel that will review the QSTD:Pilot project nine-months into the QSTD:Pilot project. Transitioning from the QSTD:Pilot to the QSTD:Design phase, the Lead Organization and the Lead PI may change subject to the eligibility limits on number of proposals per organization and per PI or co-PI stated in this solicitation.

Following upon a clear and agreed-upon understanding of goals and objectives, the selection of a Lead Organization, and approval by the NSF to advance from the Pilot to the Design phase, QSTD:Pilot teams may choose to consolidate prior to submitting a QSTD:Design proposal to advance to the Design phase. There are no restrictions or limitations on the type of organization eligible to serve as Lead Organization on the proposal.

NQVL:QSTD:Implementation Submission of a QSTD:Implementation proposal is contingent upon the existence of a QSTD:Design project in the same topical area, and the positive recommendation from the last annual site visit panel review of the QSTD:Design project. Transitioning from the QSTD:Design to the QSTD:Implementation phase, the Lead Organization and the Lead PI may change subject to the eligibility limits on number of proposals per organization and per PI or co-PI stated in this solicitation. Following upon a clear and agreed-upon understanding of goals and objectives, the selection of a Lead Organization, and approval by the NSF to advance from the Design to the Implementation phase, QSTD:Design teams may choose to consolidate prior to submitting a QSTD:Implementation proposal to advance to the Implementation phase. There are no restrictions or limitations on the type of organization eligible to serve as Lead Organization on the proposal.

Submission of a QSTD:Implementation proposal is contingent upon the existence of a QSTD:Design project in the same topical area, and the positive recommendation from the last annual site visit panel review of the QSTD:Design project. Transitioning from the QSTD:Design to the QSTD:Implementation phase, the Lead Organization and the Lead PI may change subject to the eligibility limits on number of proposals per organization and per PI or co-PI stated in this solicitation.

Following upon a clear and agreed-upon understanding of goals and objectives, the selection of a Lead Organization, and approval by the NSF to advance from the Design to the Implementation phase, QSTD:Design teams may choose to consolidate prior to submitting a QSTD:Implementation proposal to advance to the Implementation phase. There are no restrictions or limitations on the type of organization eligible to serve as Lead Organization on the proposal.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization: 1

Up to one (1) QSTD Design or Implementation proposal may be submitted per Lead Organization.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI: 1

An individual may serve as PI or co-PI on no more than one (1) QSTD Design or Implementation proposal.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Not Applicable

Not Applicable
