https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/phy-division-physics-investigator-initiated-research-projects/nsf23-615/solicitation

Title: Division of Physics: Investigator-Initiated Research Projects (PHY)
Synopsis: The Division of Physics (PHY) supports physics research and the preparation of future scientists in the nation’s colleges and universities across a broad range of physics disciplines that span scales of space and time from the largest to the smallest and the oldest to the youngest.  The Division is comprised of disciplinary programs covering experimental and theoretical research in the following major subfields of physics: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics; Elementary Particle Physics; Gravitational Physics; Integrative Activities in Physics; Nuclear Physics; Particle Astrophysics; Physics at the Information Frontier; Physics of Living Systems; Plasma Physics; and Quantum Information Science. 
Additional Information
The Division of Physics strongly encourages single proposal submission for possible co-review rather than submission of multiple related proposals to several programs.
PIs considering submitting more than one proposal to this solicitation, or who already have an active PHY award, are encouraged to first consult with the relevant program officer(s) before preparing a new proposal. This does not apply to awards from or submissions to the MRI, REU, and/or center programs, or in cases of renewal proposals.
Due Dates
Full Proposal Deadline(s) (due by 5 p.m. submitter’s local time):




Program(s)


Deadline




Plasma Physics


Third Monday in November, e.g. November 20, 2023




AMO – Theory and Experiment
Gravitational Physics – Theory and Experiment
LIGO Research Support
Integrative Activities in Physics


Fourth Wednesday in November,
e.g. November 22, 2023




Elementary Particle Physics – Experiment
Particle Astrophysics – Experiment


First Tuesday in December, e.g. December 05, 2023




Nuclear Physics – Theory and Experiment
Elementary Particle Physics – Theory
Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology – Theory
Physics of Living Systems
Quantum Information Science


Second Tuesday in December,
e.g. December 12, 2023
Award Type: standard, continuing, coop
Program ID: 505058
NSF/PD Num: nsf23615
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2023-08-10
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/phy-division-physics-investigator-initiated-research-projects/nsf23-615
Type: Program
