https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/hrrbaa-high-risk-research-biological-anthropology-archaeology/nsf19-570/solicitation

Title: High-Risk Research in Biological Anthropology and Archaeology (HRRBAA)
Synopsis: Anthropological research may be conducted under unusual circumstances, often in distant locations. As a result the ability to conduct potentially important research may hinge on factors that are impossible to assess from a distance and some projects with potentially great payoffs may face difficulties in securing funding. This program gives small awards that provide investigators with the opportunity to assess the feasibility of an anthropological research project. It is required that the proposed activity be clearly high risk in nature. The information gathered may then be used as the basis for preparing a more fully developed research program. 
Investigators must contact the cognizant NSF Program Director before submitting an HRRBAA proposal. This will facilitate determining whether the proposed work is appropriate for HRRBAA support.
Award Type: standard
Proposals accepted anytime: 1
Program ID: 5319
NSF/PD Num: nsf19570
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2019-03-22
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/hrrbaa-high-risk-research-biological-anthropology-archaeology/nsf19-570
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

High-Risk Research in Biological Anthropology and Archaeology (HRRBAA)

I. Introduction

Much anthropological research is conducted in distant areas of the world where circumstances may exist that render access to data, research sites, or other resources uncertain. Anthropologists also sometimes need to test new and innovative methodologies.

To allow projects for which research outcomes are at risk for these or other reasons, Archaeology and Biological Anthropology programs have established the High Risk Research in Biological Anthropology and Archaeology program (HRRBAA). PIs may apply for small awards (not to exceed $35,000 total costs and a one-year duration) to support pilot projects for proof of concept or proof of access.

II. Program Description

This program is designed to permit the submission of high-risk, exploratory proposals that can lead to significant new anthropological knowledge. Because of a highly competitive environment, proposals that have both a high risk of failure and the potential for significant payoffs are less able to compete with standard research proposals. This program is designed to provide a mechanism whereby risky proposals with a great potential for advancement of the discipline can compete for funding. The risk involved in such endeavors must significantly exceed that associated with regular research projects. The Archaeology and Biological Anthropology programs utilize this mechanism.

The following describes possible proposals for this program, but these are not necessarily the only applicable situations. As the definition of risk can vary by sub-discipline and because an assessment of the potential payoff is integral to the decision process, it is necessary to discuss topics with the appropriate program officer prior to submission.

A biological anthropologist or archaeologist may desire to search for primate or hominin fossils, and/or artifacts, features, and sites. The location of appropriate geological formations or occupation sites may be suggested by early documents in a library, but a reconnaissance trip to the area is necessary to assess the ability to locate suitable sites and to gain permissions and logistical support to conduct the research.

The review process for HRRBAA proposals involves obtaining three reviews from experts in the appropriate area, but does not require review by the cognizant program panel. Hence review can be expedited relative to standard proposals that are evaluated by a review panel.

Investigators must contact the cognizant NSF Program Director before submitting an HRRBAA proposal. This will facilitate determining whether the proposed work is appropriate for HRRBAA support.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 2 to 5

2 to 5 per year. Variable, depending on number of submissions and availability of funds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $100,000 to $150,000

Total anticipated funding amount of $100,000 to $150,000 per year pending the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

The categories of proposers eligible to submit proposals to the National Science Foundation are identified in the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Chapter I.E. Unaffiliated individuals are not eligible to submit proposals in response to this solicitation.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.
