https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/spse-structure-physics-solid-earth/nsf25-518/solicitation

Title: Structure and Physics of the Solid Earth (SPSE)
Synopsis: The Structure and Physics of the Solid Earth Program (SPSE) aims to advance fundamental knowledge about the ongoing dynamical processes over the age of the Earth that evolve the structure of planet Earth and underpin geohazards. SPSE supports research at all temporal and spatial scales, from the Earth's core to its crust. Through laboratory, field, theoretical, and computational studies, the program encompasses a wide range of disciplines including structural geology, tectonics, and geophysics. Research in these areas can help improve our understanding of natural hazards including earthquakes and mass flows, as well as Earth’s formation and its magnetic field.
Award Type: standard, continuing
Proposals accepted anytime: 1
Program ID: 506377
NSF/PD Num: nsf25518
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2024-12-06
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/spse-structure-physics-solid-earth/nsf25-518
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Structure and Physics of the Solid Earth (SPSE)

I. Introduction

The Structure and Physics of the Solid Earth Program is part of the Division of Earth Sciences (EAR) within the Directorate for Geosciences (GEO). EAR supports investigations of the evolution, processes, and properties of Earth through this and three other programs:

Chemical Evolution of the Solid Earth and Volcanology

Life and Environments through Time

Water, Landscape, and Critical Zone Processes

EAR also provides support for instrumental and observational infrastructure, cyberinfrastructure, and educational and outreach activities. Projects may employ any combination of field, laboratory, and computational studies with observational, theoretical, or experimental approaches.

Interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary proposals may require joint review within EAR, with other GEO Divisions, or with other NSF Directorates, and may be considered for joint support. Projects should be submitted to the EAR solicitation most strongly aligned with the primary objectives or hypotheses of the proposal regardless of methods.

EAR invites submission of collaborative projects that articulate a fundamental overarching Earth Science question that is addressed through integrative hypothesis- or question-driven research. The project also should lead to outcomes that have potential to reveal new principles underlying the function or interaction of Earth systems.

II. Program Description

The Structure and Physics of the Solid Earth Program aims to advance fundamental knowledge about the ongoing dynamical processes over the age of the Earth that evolve the structure of planet Earth and underpin geohazards. SPSE supports research at all temporal and spatial scales, from the Earth's core to its lithosphere, encompassing a wide range of disciplines including structural geology, tectonics, and geophysics.

Examples of research areas that could be pursued through this solicitation include, but are not limited to:

Fundamental physical processes that underpin geohazards, including those arising from earthquakes and mass flows

Deformation processes and their tectonic drivers that operate at any depth within the continental lithosphere, including faulting, subduction, rifting, and mountain-building processes

Physical and rheological properties of Earth materials and their relationship to tectonic or geophysical processes in the lithosphere, mantle and core

Mantle structure, heterogeneity, dynamics, and evolution

Isostatic adjustment and physical interactions within and across layers of the Earth, as well as between the solid Earth and the surface

Core structure and dynamics, geodynamo, and the geologic record of the Earth’s magnetic field

Global and planetary-scale processes, the Earth’s heat budget through time, and the origins of plate tectonics.

This solicitation supports research in disciplines that include geodesy, geodynamics, geomagnetism, heat flow, mineral physics, potential fields, seismology, structural geology, rock structure, and rock deformation. Within these fields, research can span laboratory, field, theoretical, and/or computational studies.

The SPSE Program seeks meritorious and impactful research relevant to the structure and physics of the solid Earth. This research can include interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approaches, and emerging fields and frontiers. This program supports single-investigator, multi-investigator, and collaborative proposals as well as international collaboration. Proposals that support community experiments and planning for later large-scale efforts consistent with program objectives will also be considered.

Geoscience Lessons for and from Other Worlds ( GLOW DCL ): This solicitation encourages projects that place the Solid Earth in the greater context of other planets, both in our Solar System and beyond. These projects must address the structure or physics of the Solid Earth by either drawing lessons from or informing interpretation of other planetary bodies in the Galaxy. Projects that address science questions of both the Earth and other planets may be co-reviewed in other directorates.

Where research topics cross disciplinary and methodological bounds, proposals may be considered for joint support with other programs in EAR, GEO, or other directorates at the U.S. National Science Foundation. For example, projects that apply seismic and other geophysical methods to understand volcanic and/or magmatic systems may be shared with or handled by the Chemical Evolution of the Solid Earth Program and Volcanology (CESEV). Project related to developing geophysical techniques to understand the physics of mass flows may be shared with or handled by the Water and Critical Zone Program (WaLCZ). Research projects on oceanic lithosphere, crossing the shoreline or collecting data both off-shore and on-shore may be considered jointly with the Marine Geology and Geophysics Program (MGG) in the Division of Ocean Sciences.

Proposals for community workshops that can guide the community on new research topics and grand challenge questions are encouraged, and those that have plans to broadly disseminate the discussions and outcomes will be prioritized.

The SPSE Program supports a wide range of broader impacts activities. Successful projects will include broader impact activities that are creative, well-integrated, and effective. These broader impacts activities should be developed within the context of the people involved in the project and the mission, goals, and resources of the organizations involved. The expertise of the collaborators, the proposal budget, and budget justification should reflect this integration. Examples of activities that may be proposed include, but are not limited to, broadening participation in the geosciences, scientific infrastructure enhancement, public engagement, establishing new or expanding partnerships with industry, government, academic, and international institutions, and translating research to benefit broader societal needs.

In addition to opportunities described in this SPSE solicitation, SPSE also funds proposals submitted in response to the Faculty Early Career Development ( CAREER ) Program, Research Coordination Networks ( RCN ), EMpowering BRoader Academic Capacity and Education ( EMBRACE ) Program and Mid-Career Advancement ( MCA ) solicitations. The SPSE Program also accepts Rapid Response Research (RAPID), EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER), Planning, and Conference proposal requests (see guidance in Chapter II.F of the PAPPG) and supplemental funding requests (see guidance in Chapter VI.E of the PAPPG); these additional proposal submissions require approval from a SPSE program director prior to preparing a submission. Where SPSE participates in cross-agency competitions, proposals that are suitable for review within these competitions must be submitted directly to these solicitations rather than to SPSE. If there is doubt as to the appropriate destination for a proposal, prospective PIs are encouraged to contact the SPSE program directors prior to submission. SPSE welcomes inquiries on any proposal type prior to submission.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 60 to 75

Anticipated Funding Amount: $22,000,000

Estimated program budget, number of awards and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs): Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of sub-awards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.

Non-profit, non-academic organizations: Independent museums, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies and similar organizations located in the U.S. that are directly associated with educational or research activities.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.
