https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/che-drp-division-chemistry-disciplinary-research-programs/nsf22-605/solicitation

Title: Chemical Measurement and Imaging (CMI)
Synopsis: The Chemical Measurement and Imaging (CMI) Program supports research focusing on chemically-relevant measurement science and chemical imaging. Projects may target development of innovative approaches and instruments likely to be of use to the chemistry community, and/or improved understanding of new and existing methods. Research areas include, but are not limited to, analytical separation science; electroanalytical chemistry; and spectrometry (including atomic, molecular, magnetic resonance, and mass spectrometry). Development of new chemical imaging and measurement tools that probe chemical properties and processes is supported. Innovations enabling the monitoring and imaging of chemical and electronic processes across a wide range of time and length scales are also relevant. New approaches to data analysis and interpretation (including cheminformatics) are encouraged. Proposals addressing established techniques must seek improved understanding and/or innovative approaches to substantially broaden applicability. Sensor-related proposals are expected to address new approaches to chemical sensing, with prospects for broad utility and significant enhancement of current capabilities. 
Proposals addressing development of new instrumentation that enables chemical measurements likely to be of wide interest and utility to the chemistry research community should include the words "Instrument Development:" at the beginning of the title, and include, in the Project Description, consideration of a development timeline, potential utility, and prospects for the extension of the technique to other uses or fields, should it prove viable.
The CMI Program is also interested in proposal submissions in the following topical areas: Industrial partnerships are encouraged through the Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) mechanism as means of enhancing use by the greater community, but concepts nearing commercialization are better fits to Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) or Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Programs.
Proposals integrating innovative computational approaches with CMI-relevant research, such as those enabling efficient and effective data acquisition and analysis, are encouraged and should be submitted to the CMI Program through the Computational and Data Science and Engineering (CDS&E) funding opportunity.
Through the Critical Aspects of Sustainability (CAS) program, the Division of Chemistry looks to support basic research aimed at improving the sustainability of resources for future generations while maintaining or improving current products within a global society. Examples of CAS-relevant studies appropriate for the CMI Program include, but are not limited to: measurement science innovations targeting capabilities (such as remote or field-portable measurements) needed for improved characterization of important atmospheric and environmental systems; and innovations in separations science, targeting reduced use of costly and/or toxic solvents.
Research topics that are not of interest to the CMI Program: The CMI Program does not encourage proposals addressing: the development of techniques for topological/morphological imaging; research based on known sensing mechanisms, such as probe synthesis or assembly of array-type devices; or engineering aspects of membrane separations, microfluidics, and/or "lab-on-a-chip" device design, technology, and application. Proposals for the design and synthesis of novel molecular probes for sensing or contrast agents may be more suitable for the CSDM-B Program. Proposals for optimizing and/or utilizing established methods for specific applications should be directed to programs focused on the application. Proposals addressing innovations with anticipated utility primarily in other communities (e.g., biology or materials) are also not encouraged. Proposals with large equipment requests (over $150,000) may be better suited to the Major Research Instrumentation (MRI) Program.
Proposals submitted to this program (including individual and collaborative proposals, GOALIs) must be submitted to the CHE Disciplinary Research Programs solicitation. 
Exceptions:
·         RUI proposals must be submitted to the RUI Solicitation during the regular proposal submission window for this program.
·         Proposals submitted in response to another solicitation (CAREER) should follow the solicitation guidelines (e.g. CAREER)
·         Workshop, EAGER, RAPID or RAISE proposals must be discussed with a Program Officer before submission, and then should only be submitted as instructed.
PIs are encouraged to monitor current funding priorities identified by the Foundation and the Executive and Legislative branches, and to highlight relevant synergies in their Project Summaries and Project Descriptions.
CHE is also committed to the inclusion of all people and institutions across all geographies in the U.S. because all are vital to the nation’s health, security and global leadership in STEM. NSF welcomes the submission of proposals to this funding opportunity that include the participation of the full spectrum of diverse talent in STEM, e.g., as PI, co-PI, senior personnel, postdoctoral scholars, graduate or undergraduate students or trainees. CHE also recognizes that STEM research and education occur at a wide range of institutions, including Minority-serving Institutions (MSIs), Primarily Undergraduate Institutions (PUIs), and two-year colleges, as well as major research institutions. CHE welcomes single institution and multi-institutional collaborative proposals from all types of institutions and encourages authentic and substantive collaborations and partnerships across diverse geographies and types of institutions. Proposals from EPSCoR jurisdictions are especially encouraged.
CHE occasionally supports forward-looking workshops attempting to inform roadmaps (included in the resulting workshop reports) for future research needs and directions relevant to chemical science. We are not generally able to support research symposia, including those at either special or recurring meetings and conferences.
For recent awards made by the program, search NSF award database with the Program Element Code 688000.

What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)
Map of Recent Awards Made Through This Program
Program ID: 505562
NSF/PD Num: nsf22605
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2018-04-30
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/cmi-chemical-measurement-imaging/pd18-6880
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

Division of Chemistry: Disciplinary Research Programs (CHE-DRP)

I. Introduction

This solicitation represents an enhanced mechanism for the chemistry research community to submit individual or small team research proposals to six (6) of the NSF Division of Chemistry's Disciplinary Research Programs: CAT, CMI, CMFP, ECS, MSN, and SYN.

II. Program Description

CHE supports a large and vibrant research community engaged in fundamental discovery, invention, and innovation in the chemical sciences. The projects supported by CHE explore the frontiers of chemical science, develop the foundations for future technologies and industries that meet changing societal needs, and prepare the next generation of chemical researchers.

Some of the areas supported by CHE include:

designing, synthesizing and characterizing new molecules, catalysts, surfaces, and nanostructures - especially those with a focus on sustainability;

increasing our fundamental understanding of chemical species, their structures, and their chemical transformations, kinetics, and thermodynamics;

developing new tools and novel instrumentation for chemical discovery, including those in data discovery science where increasing volumes and varieties of data are harnessed to advance innovation;

determining structure-function relationships in biological systems and contributing to our understanding of the fundamental rules of life;

observing, manipulating, and controlling the behavior of matter and energy in nanometer dimensions such as the quantum regime;

understanding chemical processes in the environment;

expanding chemical understanding through data sharing, mining, and re-purposing; and expanding state-of-the-art data analytics tools;

solving complex chemical problems by the development of new theories, computations, models, and tools;

contributing to industries of the future as relevant to the chemical sciences: quantum information systems, biotechnology, advanced manufacturing, artificial intelligence.

This solicitation covers submission to the following six CHE Disciplinary Research Programs (DRPs; also known as core programs):

Chemical Catalysis (CAT), Element code 688400. [Program Description]

Chemical Measurement and Imaging (CMI), Element code 688000. [Program Description]

Chemical Mechanism, Function and Properties (CMFP), Element code 910200. [Program Description]

Chemical Synthesis (SYN), Element code 687800. [Program Description]

Environmental Chemical Sciences (ECS), Element code 688200. [Program Description]

Macromolecular, Supramolecular and Nanochemistry (MSN), Element code 688500. [Program Description]

Projects currently supported by CHE programs can be found using the NSF Awards Search engine at https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/advancedSearch.jsp .

To identify awards from a specific program, enter the element code associated with that program (e.g. 688400 for Chemical Catalysis).

Important Additional Information:

All proposals to these six CHE Disciplinary Research Programs (other than the exceptions discussed below) must be submitted through this solicitation, otherwise they will be returned without review. Proposals under the following special categories are welcome through this solicitation and should be submitted during the submission windows for the disciplinary programs:

Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaisons with Industry (GOALI). GOALI proposals should be submitted through this solicitation, with titles starting with GOALI: and the "GOALI" type of proposal selected. See additional guidance in the PAPPG.

Facilitating Research at Primarily Undergraduate Institutions (RUI), ( https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=5518 ). RUI proposals should be submitted through the RUI solicitation , with titles starting with RUI:.

EAGER, RAPID, RAISE, and conference proposals may be submitted at any time in response to the PAPPG, after consultation with the cognizant NSF Program Officer. These types of proposals are not subject to the limits on the number of proposals per PI. In addition, supplemental funding requests to existing grants may be submitted at any time in accordance with the PAPPG, after consultation with the cognizant NSF Program Officer. Such requests also are not subject to the limits on the number of submissions per PI.

CAREER proposals should be submitted through the CAREER solicitation by the deadline specified for CAREER proposals.

Information Sharing with other Funding Agencies or Private Foundations

When permitted under an MOU between NSF and another funding agency or private foundation, NSF may share information from proposals for consideration of joint funding and may invite employees of such organizations to attend merit review panels as observers.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 245

Approximately 245 awards, subject to availability of funds.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $105,000,000

Approximately $105,000,000, pending availability of funds, for new and continuing awards. For specific information, PIs may consult the individual program or use the NSF award search engine to search for awards by program or Program Officer.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of subawards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.

Non-profit, non-academic organizations: Independent museums, observatories, research laboratories, professional societies and similar organizations located in the U.S. that are directly associated with educational or research activities.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI: 2

Through this solicitation, during a one-year period beginning September 1, 2022 (and annually thereafter), proposers may serve as PI, Co-PI, or senior/key personnel on at most two proposals across all nine (9) CHE Disciplinary Research Programs provided at least one of the two proposals is multi-investigator or a collaborative proposal. While both proposals may be multi-investigator or collaborative, proposers may serve on at most one proposal as the sole PI.

This restriction includes proposals under Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) and Facilitating Research at Primarily Undergraduate Institutions ( RUI), as well as proposals submitted to the Division of Chemistry: Disciplinary Research Programs: No Deadline Pilot (CHE-DRP:NDP) Solicitation ( NSF 22-606 ).

Proposals for EAGER, RAPID, RAISE, and conferences, as well as supplemental funding requests to existing grants, are not subject to this limitation and may be submitted at any time after consultation with the cognizant NSF Program Officer.

Proposals submitted to other solicitations (e.g., Centers for Chemical Innovation , Major Research Instrumentation , Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Sites , Launching Early-Career Academic Pathways in the Mathematical and Physical Sciences (LEAPS-MPS) , or CAREER) are also not subject to this restriction.

If a PI submits more proposals as PI/coPI/Senior Personnel than this solicitation allows, only the earliest compliant proposal(s) will be retained and any subsequent proposals will be returned without review.

Proposers are encouraged to contact the cognizant NSF Program Officers listed in this solicitation if help is needed to resolve submission eligibility questions.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Not Applicable

Not Applicable
