https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/dli-del-nsf-dynamic-language-infrastructure-neh-documenting/nsf22-615/solicitation

Title: NSF Dynamic Language Infrastructure - NEH Documenting Endangered Languages (DLI-DEL)
Synopsis: This funding partnership between the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) supports projects to develop and advance knowledge concerning dynamic language infrastructure in the context of endangered human languages — languages that are both understudied and at risk of falling out of use. Made urgent by the imminent loss of roughly half of the approximately 7,000 currently used languages, this effort aims to exploit advances in human-language technology to build computational infrastructure for endangered language research. The program supports projects that contribute to data management and archiving, and to the development of the next generation of researchers. Funding can support fieldwork and other activities relevant to the digital recording, documentation and analysis, and archiving of endangered language data, including the preparation of lexicons, grammars, text samples, and databases. Funding is available in the form of one- to three-year senior research grants and conference proposals. Fellowship support is available through a separate funding opportunity administered by NEH.
Note: a conference proposal should generally be submitted at least a year in advance of the scheduled date of the conference. For additional information about creating and submitting conference proposals, please refer to PAPPG Chapter II. E.9.
Award Type: standard, continuing
Next due date (Y-m-d): 2026-02-17, 2026-02-17
Program ID: 505705
NSF/PD Num: nsf22615
Status: Cleared
Posted date (Y-m-d): 2022-07-15
URL: https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/dli-del-nsf-dynamic-language-infrastructure-neh-documenting/nsf22-615
Type: Program

Extracted from solicitation page (selected sections):
Summary of Program Requirements

General Information

Program Title:

NSF Dynamic Language Infrastructure - NEH Documenting Endangered Languages (DLI-DEL)

I. Introduction

The broad range of human languages provides an incredible resource for better understanding human behavior and cognition. However, roughly half of the world's 7,000 languages are endangered and at risk of extinction. These endangered languages constitute an irreplaceable resource, not only for the communities who use them, but also for scientists and scholars.

The great variety of these languages represents a vast, largely unmapped territory for which linguists, anthropologists, and cognitive scientists can chart the full capabilities and limits of the human mind.

Each endangered language embodies unique local knowledge of the cultures and natural systems in the region in which it is spoken.

These languages are among the few sources of evidence for filling in the record of the human past.

Since the discipline of linguistics is a responsibility both of the National Science Foundation and of the National Endowment for the Humanities, addressing the imminent loss of linguistic and cultural knowledge is a major concern and a priority for both agencies.

Recent advances in human language technology enable novel approaches to language infrastructure and can facilitate prompt and coordinated fieldwork. These advances make it possible not only to document endangered languages, but also to integrate and analyze that body of knowledge in unprecedented ways. Computerization of speech and universal Internet access is transforming the practice of linguistics in the area of endangered languages.

Linguists will be able to work from shared, common sets of data, rather than from isolated personal data collections.

The data will be searchable in a large variety of ways. For example, finding all occurrences of a particular phoneme or syntactic feature in a database will become feasible.

The recorded sounds of a language will be available. Linguists will be able to check written transcriptions; they will be able to focus more attention on such matters as intonation in syntax.

Interoperable digital repositories will be created.

Interoperability will drive the development of a unified ontology for linguistics, eventually replacing inconsistent descriptive terminologies.

The endangered languages belong to highly divergent language families, which often present the most extreme cases of language differentiation. The availability of a wider range of data will enable linguists to achieve much greater time depth, for example, in using the comparative method to reconstruct proto-languages. It will also enable linguists to test more precisely claims about linguistic universals and about what humans can learn. Finally, it will enable computer scientists to test known computational methods and statistical computational tools and to develop new ones.

A coordinated, sustained, and technologically sophisticated interagency initiative by these U.S. partner agencies is intended to complement efforts underway elsewhere in the world sponsored by organizations in the UK including the Endangered Languages Documentation Programme as well as by UNESCO .

II. Program Description

NSF Dynamic Language Infrastructure – NEH Documenting Endangered Languages (DLI–DEL) is a joint funding program of the National Science Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities to develop and advance scientific and scholarly knowledge concerning endangered human languages. Made urgent by the imminent loss of roughly half of the approximately 7000 currently used human languages, DLI–DEL seeks not only to acquire scientific data that will soon be unobtainable, but to integrate, systematize, and make the resulting linguistic findings widely available by exploiting advances in information technology.

Principal Investigators (PIs) may propose projects involving one or more of the following three emphasis areas:

1. Language Description

To conduct fieldwork to record in digital audio and video format one or more endangered languages; to carry out the early stages of language documentation including transcription and annotation; to carry out later stages of documentation including the preparation of lexicons, grammars, text samples, and databases; to conduct initial analysis of findings in the light of current linguistic theory.

2. Infrastructure

To digitize and otherwise preserve and provide wider access to the documentary materials described above, including previously collected materials and those concerned with languages that have recently lost all fluent speakers and are related to currently endangered languages; to create other infrastructures, including conferences to make the problem of endangered languages more widely understood and more effectively addressed.

3. Computational Methods

To further develop standards and databases to make the documentation of a certain language or languages widely available in consistent, archivable, interoperable and web-based formats; to develop computational tools (taggers, parsers, speech recognizers, grammar inducers, etc.) for endangered languages, which present a particular challenge for those using statistical and machine learning, especially deep learning methods, since such languages do not have the large corpora for training and testing the models used to develop those tools; and to develop new approaches to building computational tools for endangered languages, which make use of deeper knowledge of linguistics, including language typology and families, and which require collaboration among theoretical and field linguists and computational linguists, computer scientists and engineers.

Accomplishing the goals of the DLI–DEL program may require multidisciplinary research teams and comprehensive, interdisciplinary approaches across the sciences, engineering, education, and humanities, as appropriate. Interdisciplinary research combining the expertise of scientists expands the rewards of language documentation. In each emphasis area, DLI–DEL encourages collaboration across academic disciplines and /or communities. For example, a DLI–DEL project might pair linguists with computer scientists, geographers, anthropologists, educators, and others as appropriate.

Examples of community collaborations might include scholars working in well-defined partnerships with native speaker communities. DLI–DEL also encourages investigators to include in their project's innovative plans for training native speakers in descriptive linguistics and new technologies which support the documentation of endangered languages. DLI–DEL gives high priority to projects that involve actual recording in digital audio and video format of endangered languages before they become extinct.

Proposed projects may range from a single investigator to a team of investigators working for three years.

The DLI-DEL Program is also interested in contributing to a new generation of scholars through targeted supplements, which support both graduate and undergraduate research experience.

Documentation is a key complement to language revitalization efforts, but DLI does not support projects to revive or expand the actual use of endangered languages. Tribal groups interested in the full range of language revitalization activities should contact the Native Language Program of the Administration for Native Americans in the Administration for Children & Families of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services .

However, DLI-DEL encourages investigators from Tribal Colleges and Universities Program (TCUP)-eligible institutions to submit either senior research proposals or collaborative proposals from consortia of TCUP-eligible institutions and partnering universities with educational or research ties to TCUP-eligible institutions’ faculty or students. While one TCUP-eligible institution may be identified to take the lead on organizational activities, each institution will independently manage its award.

Examples of collaborations with TCUP-eligible institutions may include:

Building TCU institutions' research and scholarly training capacity in documentary and descriptive linguistics, computational methodology, archiving and preservation.

Attracting, retraining, and supporting TCU students in independent research endeavors.

Non-TCU institutions providing research training to enable the successful transition of TCU students to major research universities.

III. Award Information

Anticipated Type of Award: Standard Grant or Continuing Grant

Estimated Number of Awards: 20 to 25

Award Size and Duration

Senior Research and Conference Projects: Approximately 20-25 Standard or Continuing Grants of up to $450,000 for up to three years. Funding will be available in the form of one- to three-year senior research grants, in addition to conference proposals. Collaborative Senior Research projects should not exceed the $450,000 limit.

Anticipated Funding Amount: $4,800,000

Estimated program budget, number of awards and average award size/duration are subject to the availability of funds.

IV. Eligibility Information

Who May Submit Proposals:

Proposals may only be submitted by the following:

Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges) accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members. Special Instructions for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of subawards and consultant arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus.

Non-profit, non-academic organizations: Independent museums, observatories, research labs, professional societies and similar organizations in the U.S. associated with educational or research activities.

Tribal organizations and other American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian serving organizations.

Who May Serve as PI:

There are no program-specific restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per Organization:

There are no restrictions or limits.

Limit on Number of Proposals per PI or co-PI:

An individual may be listed as a PI or co-PI on only one Senior Research proposal per Review Cycle. This limit does not apply to Conference/Workshop proposals. CAREER proposals that are submitted to DLI-DEL are reviewed during the Fall Review Cycle; a PI may not submit both a CAREER and a Senior Research proposal in the same cycle.

Proposal Preparation and Submission Instructions

A. Proposal Preparation Instructions

Letters of Intent: Not required

Preliminary Proposal Submission: Not required

Full Proposals: Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg . Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

Full Proposals:

Full Proposals submitted via Research.gov: NSF Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) guidelines apply. The complete text of the PAPPG is available electronically on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=pappg .

Full Proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply (Note: The NSF Grants.gov Application Guide is available on the Grants.gov website and on the NSF website at: https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=grantsgovguide ).

B. Budgetary Information

Cost Sharing Requirements: Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Cost Sharing Requirements:

Inclusion of voluntary committed cost sharing is prohibited.

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations: Not Applicable

Indirect Cost (F&A) Limitations:

Not Applicable

Other Budgetary Limitations: Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.

Other Budgetary Limitations:

Other budgetary limitations apply. Please see the full text of this solicitation for further information.
